MATT: Hello everyone, and welcome to tonight's
episode of Critical Role, where a bunch of us
nerdy-ass voice actors sit around and play
Dungeons & Dragons! Before we get into it for
tonight's game, we're going to go through some
quick announcements, so be patient with this.
First and foremost, returning for tonight, our
fantastic sponsor for campaign two thus far: our
friends at D&D Beyond. Sam?
SAM: Yes, D&D Beyond, a consistent and amazing
sponsor of our show, wants to let you guys know
that Mordenkainen's Tome of Foes is out! Get yours
right now on the D&D Beyond website. To celebrate,
I called my old friend, Rhody Slater.
LAURA: No!
SAM: Ready? (As surfer) Hang ten, kahunas and
wahines! It's Rhody Slater! Duck diving the word
from D&D Beyond! Yank that leash and wrap up the
dawn patrol because if a player in your campaign
has a master level subscription, any player that
owns Mordenkainen's Tome of Foes can share content
with everyone in your party. Frothy, right? Well,
kick out your longboard because-- Because--
(As Sam) You know what, guys? I can't do this. It's
not D&D Beyond, they're a great sponsor. It's me.
You know, I just felt like at this point in my
career I'd be doing serious shit like Ibsen or
O'Neill, but I'm doing this shitty Keanu Reeves
voice and writing crappy sitcom catchphrases. No
offense, Ashley. This stuff is going to live on
the internet forever! My kids are going to watch
this and be like like, "Wow, your dad was a
loser," you know?
LAURA: Yeah, that's what we think all the time.
SAM: I feel like I can do so much more.
(phone rings)
SAM: Oh sorry, I'm getting a phone call. This is
embarrassing. Hello? Yeah, uh-uh. Really? Yes! I
accept! Okay! Thank you. That was my agent. Guys,
I booked a two-spot local radio campaign for Lord
of the Wings, that new wing place in Chatsworth!
Two radio spots! I'm a real actor again! I'm back!
All right! Where was I? (As surfer) So wax down
that twin fin and pull a thruster on an epic left
because D&D Beyond is righteous! Banzai! (as Sam)
What a crazy turn of events.
MATT: I'm so happy. I'm so proud of you. You did
it, Sam.
TRAVIS: Congrats man, congrats buddy. Hashtag
booked it!
MARISHA: Wow, that was so authentic to the actor
experience.
LAURA: And really believable.
SAM: Lord of the Wings is not a bad restaurant.
It's just average.
MARISHA: It's a regional spot!
SAM: I might get some residuals.
LIAM: On a side note, Matt, you look so quietly
pained to hear Mordenkainen bathed in whatever
that was.
MATT: I wasn't pained, I was more contemplating
the fact that those two facets have never combined
until this point probably. (surfer voice) Probably
haven't heard anyone talk about Otiluke's
Resilient Sphere. (normal voice) I like the prospect of
a super Big Sur surf tour of D&D wizard names.
ASHLEY: Lord of the Wings, I would go there. Just
as a side note. Morden-cayenne wings! Let's do it.
TRAVIS: Road trip.
MATT: "Would you like your pasta with Saruman the
White sauce?" Thank you, Sam, and thank you, D&D
Beyond, for being our amazing sponsor. And
congratulations on your booking. First up, Vox
Machina: Origins the hardcover collection, the
actual physical tome of our first six-run comic
series will be on sale next week on May 31st!
LIAM: So shiny and beautiful! Oh my gosh, Laura
wants to hold it.
ASHLEY: I love it!
SAM: Get your fingerprints off it!
LAURA: I just want to look at it, but you said I
had to show it.
MARISHA: It smells good, too. It smells like new
comic.
LIAM: Because it is a new comic!
MARISHA: Exactly!
TALIESIN: It's got some crazy back matter, too.
MATT: It does. Let me see real fast.
LAURA: It's so pretty!
MATT: It's got some fun stuff and it's got some
extra specials in the back.
LAURA: Wait, we can show it? Are we going to show
it?
MATT: I'm going to flip it real fast. We've got a
map of Stilben. Ooh! It's gone now. We've got
character traits and actions. We've got magical
items! We've got sketches and various art pieces
that show the process of development. There you
go. It's got a whole bunch of cool extras in the
back. Anyway, that's available next week, May
31st. For all info of the sale of the comic, check
out critrole.com. We have it all up there as of
right now. Awesome!
LIAM: Critrole!
MATT: It came back, we couldn't leave it alone.
Stream of Many Eyes is coming up not this weekend,
but next weekend. Friday through Sunday, June 1st
through the 3rd with our friends at D&D Wizards of
the Coast. They're going to be running a long
series of games as they unveil their next upcoming
D&D storyline and a bunch of us are going to be
there! You go to dnd.wizards.com/some, Stream of
Many Eyes, for all the info and tickets for the
event. We'll be there, we look forward to seeing
you on the internet or otherwise. Reminder, if you
have an Amazon Prime Account you can combine it to
your Twitch account and have Twitch Prime which
allows you to subscribe for free to one Twitch
account per month. If you haven't reupped, you
should do so. Talks Machina is every Tuesday night
at 7:00PM Pacific, where our fantastic Brian W.
Foster hosts a little chat about whatever happens
about tonight's episode, for next week.
SAM: That was the saddest woo-hoo.
MATT: That was-- yeah.
LAURA: Did you just steal the comic book?
ASHLEY: Huh?
LIAM: Where did it go?
ASHLEY: Oh, what? What?
TRAVIS: Roll a stealth check.
ASHLEY: This is the way I'm shaped, what's wrong?
This is my shape.
TRAVIS: The Cube 2.0!
ASHLEY: This is my body, leave me alone.
LIAM: Oh man, that Ashley, she's so... boxy.
TRAVIS: Boxy!
(hums the intro to "Foxy Lady")
MATT: There you go. We have the Critical Role Live
dice set in the store, as well as the Vox Machina
d20 set is back in stock for a limited time.
LAURA: Is it still there?
MATT: It's on the list here.
LAURA: Sweet.
MATT: If it's not, I'm sorry. I only read what's
handed to me. I feel like Ron Burgundy. I will be
at A-Kon in Texas, Dallas/Fort Worth, June 7th to
the 10th. Looking forward to see you guys there.
Actually probably the 8th to 10th for me because
we have Thursday night that night, but I'll see
you there. I believe those are all of our
announcements for the evening which means, it's
time to bring us back into Exandria for tonight's
episode of Critical Role.
[click, TV static]
[groovy Critical Role theme]
MATT: And welcome back. I forgot one quick thing
in the announcements, something I need to get you
guys to up to speed on. We've partnered with our
friends at Stack Up, which is a nonprofit
organization dedicated to helping veterans and
those in active duty. Stack Up will be giving away
specific Critical Role challenge coins as well as
special prints by our fantastic Critter artist Amy
King. If you want to be part of this fantastic
endeavor and see how to acquire your special
challenge coin and our print, also go to
critrole.com for all the information you need. Make
sure I got that in there for you guys, and thank
you guys at Stack Up for working with us on
this. On that note: last we left off, The Mighty
Nein, after spending quite some time in the
central city of Zadash had found that war had made
its way to the Empire with the far eastern region
of Xhorhas and the Kryn dynasty. Upon this
conflict, you decided that perhaps it would be
best to leave the central urban environment. You
decided to dodge a few opportunities brought to
you, especially that by the Lawmaster of the city,
and instead went and made a conversation with your
friend The Gentleman beneath the city in his
Underworks. There, he offered two possible work
opportunities in which you accepted both. The
first of which is going to send you towards the
swamp town of Berleben, to the north-northeast.
Then from there, head far northeast to Shadycreek
Run to converse with and retrieve an ally of his
he had not been able to do business with in a
while. You gathered your materials, got your wagon
and horses, made your way northward on the
Bromkiln Byway toward the Labenda Swamp. Along
that path, you managed to encounter a shack-living
hermited orc of some unknown background. Continuing
northward, you slept in a cluster of trees where
you were ambushed by a wandering troupe of goblins
and ogres. Upon escaping their clutches and
defeating most of them-- only one, I believe, got
free-- you gathered what information you could.
Managing to keep out of the rain, you slept
beneath your cart and awaited the next morning. As
we come back in, you all have had your long rest, so if
you haven't marked that in your character sheet,
please do so.
SAM: And we leveled up.
MATT: No.
LAURA: Yeah, level six!
MATT: No, that didn't happen. As you come to, the
cold morning greets you, the low mist and fog seem
to still clutch the outer edges of the forest
trees beyond your peripheral. You can just see the
dark shapes of the trunks against the obscured
gray. The mist and dew that is gathered on the
grass and bits of vegetation near the base of the
floor where you've slept has turned to frost with
the cold night. Most of you managed to complete
your rest uncomfortably, but awake to chattering
teeth and the shaking of your body. Except for
Jester.
LAURA: I walk around and crunch all of that frost.
(crunching)
MATT: The morning is yours. What do you wish to
do?
TRAVIS: What? You never fucking get cold or
nothing?
LAURA: I don't think so, no.
TALIESIN: Let's get up and moving.
TRAVIS: Yeah, please. Anybody got whiskey or
something? Nott! You got any booze?
SAM: Of course I do.
TRAVIS: Would you mind if I swig?
SAM: Sure, here's my flask.
TRAVIS: Thanks. It's always full.
LAURA: Is it always full or it is always almost
empty?
SAM: Well, I can't see inside it, so I don't know.
But I'm sure there's some sort experiment we
could do to-- It's all right, you can have as much
as you want. It's endless.
LAURA: You don't have to buy alcohol at all
anymore?
SAM: No. I mean, I rarely did anyway. I stole it,
but now I don't have to do that either!
LAURA: That's wonderful!
SAM: Yeah. I think it's about two-thirds full most
of the time.
ASHLEY: May I try it?
SAM: Sure.
TRAVIS: It's really good, it spreads through your
chest like a fire.
LAURA: How do you decide which alcohol is in it?
SAM: I decided the first time and that's what it
is, always.
LAURA: What if you get sick of it? You can't empty
it out.
SAM: Why would I get sick of it? It's wonderful.
LAURA: What if you want to try a different thing
like--
TALIESIN: Snozzberry.
LAURA: Yeah.
ASHLEY: Does it only fill up with one kind of
alcohol?
SAM: Yes, it replenishes with my favorite kind of
whiskey.
TRAVIS: Which is?
SAM: The kind that gets you good and drunk.
TRAVIS: Oh good. I didn't know if it had a name.
TALIESIN: I tried the other kind before, and
really, it's not much.
ASHLEY: The kind that doesn't get you drunk is not
very good.
TRAVIS: Good and drunk.
LIAM: Can you get it empty or close to empty if
you try?
SAM: I could try.
LIAM: I am not suggesting you try.
SAM: I think it's a good experiment.
TRAVIS: I think so, too.
ASHLEY: I do, too.
SAM: They already started it.
LAURA: Maybe we shouldn't do that right before we
go to the swamp where we're going to fight people.
SAM: Let's just see what happens! I'll drink a
bunch.
MATT: Okay. You are very drunk.
SAM: Did it get lower?
LIAM: I grab and shake it, with my thumb over the
spigot.
MATT: It's still filled with liquid. I mean, you
drank a lot, and it still feels like half-full.
TRAVIS: Should you puke it up?
SAM: (slurred) I don't want to waste it.
LAURA: You can't really waste it.
MARISHA: Yeah, it's bottomless.
TALIESIN: You've already used it at this point,
really.
SAM: (slurred) I guess I could. Should I throw up
now?
LAURA: Maybe you should try.
MARISHA: In the name of science.
SAM: Stick something down my throat.
TRAVIS: Nott, just put your finger down your
throat.
LAURA: I find a stick. Open up!
SAM: (yelling and gagging) Did it work?
MATT: Eventually, yes.
LAURA: I don't want to hurt your throat, you
know.
TRAVIS: Face pointing up, though, so it projectile
Bouncing Betty vomits everywhere?
MATT: In a very Ren and Stimpy fashion, Jester
begins jamming this stick into Nott's gullet,
before the brackish brown whiskey comes back up in
a mild spray against the nearby, now damp, dirt
and grass.
TRAVIS: Is it steaming in the early morning cold?
MATT: It would be.
LAURA: But do you feel better though?
SAM: No, not really.
LIAM: Probably not, how is your esophagus after
that?
SAM: A little sticky.
TRAVIS: A little salsa?
SAM: Yeah.
MARISHA: A little burny?
LIAM: How many fingers am I holding up?
SAM: I think four?
LIAM: How many members of The Mighty Nein are
there?
SAM: Nine.
LIAM: She's okay.
SAM: But two are always gone.
LIAM: It's true.
ASHLEY: I feel like when I see someone else throw
up I feel almost like I do (retching). No?
TALIESIN: No.
TRAVIS: That's a violent reaction.
LIAM: Jester, help her out there, she's in need.
LAURA: Do you want me to stick something down your
throat?
ASHLEY: No, I mean, I don't know if that will
help. I think it was just gross to see (retching).
Uh-oh. It's still happening.
TALIESIN: Is it just seeing someone throw up or is
it also hearing the sound that makes it worse? If
I just went (retching) does that--
ASHLEY: Yeah, I think it's the sound, too.
TALIESIN: Okay.
LIAM: Looking at our map, how much longer do I
think we have to go to get to our destination?
MATT: If you move quickly, you can probably get
there right around sunset.
MARISHA: Is this quickly like "not paying close
attention" quickly?
MATT: It's "not carefully and quietly" quickly.
TRAVIS: I think we're good for that.
MARISHA: Yeah, we're fine.
TRAVIS: We're not concerned at all about that--
what do you call it when you get ambushed?
MARISHA, LIAM, and TALIESIN: Ambush.
TRAVIS: Last night.
SAM: You're our strategy guy, right?
TRAVIS: Yep.
SAM: Okay.
TRAVIS: It's early in the morning, I'm not awake
yet.
LAURA: We beat them, though.
TALIESIN: We've been traveling for years, we've
been ambushed dozens of times.
TRAVIS: I'm just checking. Didn't know if anybody
was alarmed.
LAURA: Is it normally ogres that ambush you?
TALIESIN: No, that was new and exciting.
ASHLEY: Especially if we're staying on the main
path, you know, we'll see anything that pops up.
TRAVIS: Fair enough.
LIAM: We want to rush? You want to rush? Let's
take it slow and we're going to get to the swamp
just as the sun is going down if we rush, and that
is full of nasty things, I'm sure.
TRAVIS: That's actually a very good point.
LIAM: If we go slower--
TALIESIN: We get there in the day.
LIAM: Yeah.
TRAVIS: Carefully then?
TALIESIN: I don't mind camping out.
LAURA: One more time?
TALIESIN: One more time.
LIAM: You all are an enjoyable lot, it will be
fun.
LAURA: That was very believable, Caleb.
MARISHA: I think he was being genuine.
TALIESIN: That was very impressive. Thank you.
MARISHA: I feel like that was the most emotion--
LAURA: I think I've ever seen.
TRAVIS: Is Caleb blushing at all?
MARISHA: A little. His ears are getting a little
pink.
LIAM: Maybe a little.
TRAVIS: All right, saddle up them dogies.
(laughter)
LAURA: Does anybody else want to drive the cart
today, or do you want me to keep driving it?
TALIESIN: I'll drive if you want to switch out
later on.
LAURA: Yeah.
TALIESIN: All right. I got it. Nott, I assume you
want to be in back.
MATT: Molly up front keeping the horses on task,
you guys pick up the pace and get back out of the
forest main cluster and onto the Bromkiln Byway
heading north-northeast once more.
LIAM: Carefully.
MATT: Are you moving at the slowest pace?
LAURA: Not the slowest pace.
TRAVIS: Medium. A five.
LAURA: A normal pace.
MATT: (singing) I drive the cart at a medium pace.
LIAM: Not willy-nilly, not galloping pace.
MATT: Pressing forward, what two are maintaining a
watch as you progress?
LAURA and LIAM: I want to watch.
MATT: One of you is aiding the other. Who is
helming the roll?
LAURA: I want to stand on the cart and stand up
for the ride and look around.
MATT: It's like Muad'Dib riding the sandworm,
standing up.
LAURA: I'll put my hands on Molly's horns and--
TALIESIN: I'm into this.
ASHLEY: I'll take the back. Caleb, can I hold
Frumpkin again?
LAURA: Am I rolling twice?
LIAM: Twice, yes.
ASHLEY: I like him.
TALIESIN: I also do have a large tapestry that's
relatively clean if anyone's feeling cold.
SAM: That's not good. Could we make that tapestry
into coats?
LAURA: Nine! Because it's appropriate.
MATT: For the first half of the day, you continue
along the path. It gets rough in places, and at
one point one of the wheels slams into a rock. You
have to double check and make sure it didn't take
any damage. It seems to be okay.
LIAM: We saw that.
TALIESIN: I can drive.
MATT: For the first half of the day, nothing
catches your eye in particular. The mist has
burned off at this point, and a bit of sunlight is
breaking through the clouds. It seems the storm
from the evening before has passed. You can see
now over the mostly gray cloud cover, there are
breaks in it, from this distance you can see these
visible beams of sunlight slowly coasting across
the grass fields as you see the heavy, high grass
pushing and pulling with each burst of breeze that
makes its way across the valley. It's very
beautiful here in the center of the Empire. It's a
very relaxing ride, though you know you're
book-ending your travel with tension to stress, so
you're taking this moment to appreciate what it is
the Empire protects and what the people within are
fighting for in the coming conflict. Second half
if the day, same people on watch?
MARISHA and ASHLEY: I'll take a watch.
LAURA: I'll sit down, I've been standing for such
a long time.
MATT: It's true, give those ankles a rest. Who's
helming the roll?
MARISHA: I'll helm.
MATT: You're aiding Beau. Roll with advantage.
MARISHA and MATT: 18.
MARISHA: Sorry, 17.
MATT: 17, all right. Continuing your pace, Beau as
you're watching out, from a north-northwestern
direction, you see a dark shape come over one of
the hilltops, wide and encompassing.
MARISHA: Moving?
MATT: It seems to be. A number of miles out of the
way, almost on the horizon, you can see this
series of rolling hills in that direction that
obscure what lies beyond that area. You watch as
one of the hills goes dark on top, like the
coloration gets covered in shade.
MARISHA: What does the weather look like? Are
there clouds in the sky?
MATT: There are clouds in the sky, especially at
this time of year, it's generally pretty cloudy
here in the Empire. You've seen breaks in the
clouds as you've traveled for most of the day, it's
been warmer than usual, so it's been a welcome
change of pace from what you're used to, but this
is not characteristic of cloud cover, as most
everything here has some level of shade.
TRAVIS: Still rolling grasslands, or are there
trees off to the side?
MATT: There are bits of trees and clusters of
them, nothing that would be considered a major forest.
What you slept in the night before has probably
been the largest cluster you've seen in your
travel today so far. This catches you.
MARISHA: It looks like the landscape is going
dark? Not something moved in front of it, or like
something is moving?
MATT: Correct. Best you can tell at this distance.
MARISHA: Who's got good eyes and knows about
clouds and shit?
NOTT: Caleb knows about clouds.
LIAM: I've spent a long time on the road, too.
MARISHA: Does that look natural to you?
MATT: You both look out there and as you travel
for the next ten minutes or so, you can see faint
glimmers in that moving shadow as a bit of
sunlight travels over it. It's at that moment you
realize what this is. It's a legion. What was a
dark shadow appears to be hundreds and hundreds of
soldiers, an army regiment that is shifting from
the northwestern side of the Empire to cross over
the byway, heading east. As you continue your pace
forward, you get to a point where you may
intersect with their path if you continue, or you
can slow down or speed up. It's your choice.
LIAM: There are a lot of soldiers ahead, and I
don't think we should have anything to do with them.
LAURA: Plus if we wait, it'll take a really long
time for them to cross the road.
LIAM: That's a very good point.
MARISHA: If we move, though, we have to move fast,
and maybe a little bit carefully.
LAURA: Let's go! Go!
MARISHA: All right.
MATT: With that (galloping) the horses begin to
pick up pace. You all grab the sides of the cart
as it begins to whir and kick its way across the
street. The horses galloping, framing the two
different sides of the cart as you pick up speed.
You come up over one of the hills and then down
another embankment. As you curve around the side,
there's a part where the grass has overgrown a
large majority of the road here, but you coast
through the center.
LAURA: We should stand up and ride it like a
surfboard!
TALIESIN: Let's not do that.
SAM: Like Teen Wolf?
LAURA: Yeah!
MATT: Make a general animal handling check if you
don't mind, Molly.
TALIESIN: Seven?
MATT: Okay.
SAM: That's terrible.
MATT: As you hit that portion of the road, you're
having a hard time steering the horses, you're not
entirely familiar enough to pull on the rein of
multiple at a single time to get the shift and
movement. They begin to careen a little bit off of
the path, almost trying to hide into the grass
embankment which slows your movement down ever so
slightly, before (impact) one of the wheels
suddenly (impact and scraping). It is now digging
into the ground.
TALIESIN: I can desperately try and right the
stuff, I suppose.
LAURA: Did it break the wheel?
MATT: The cart is now sitting at a backward angle
and it's slowing down.
LAURA: We could climb to the other side of the
cart and try to balance it so the wheel comes up.
TALIESIN: I'm going to pull hard on the reins, see
if I can get it out of the--
SAM: And continue, or stop?
TALIESIN: Oh, are we "stop" stopped?
MATT: It's grinding to a halt.
TALIESIN: Okay, I'm stopping the whole thing
really quickly.
ASHLEY: I'm going to hop off the horse and go
look.
MARISHA: Can I go ahead a little bit and see if I
find any hidden paths that might cut through this
field, off the main road? Scout ahead a little
bit.
MATT: Okay, make an investigation check. You go
and check. It looks like some sort of heavy rock
that was hidden and obscured in the grass, just
off the road, had slammed into both wheels on the
left side. The front one had bent, the wood
splintered inward and the metallic rim on the
inside had bent inward. The other one had
completely been pushed inward and knocked at the
angle, it's pretty wrecked.
LAURA: Oh no, is it fixable?
MATT: Do any of you guys have tools to fix a
wagon?
LAURA: Would we know?
MATT: What toolkits would you have at your
disposal?
LIAM: Your background would tell you, if you chose
a background, what bag of shit you have.
MATT: Your background may have abilities that
could help you in this scenario as well.
TRAVIS: Vehicles in water.
MATT: Things that are helpful: carpenter's tools,
possibly. That's kind of rough.
MARISHA: I have ball bearings.
LAURA: I have an axe.
TRAVIS: I'm pretty sure I saw carpenter's tools
and I was like, who needs that?
MATT: Anybody?
TALIESIN: I've got a hammer, I've got some rope. I
don't know.
MATT: No.
ASHLEY: I have rope. I have lots of rope.
TRAVIS: I think we're going to need to double up
on these horses, you guys. Or at least unhitch
them from the wagon.
LAURA: Yeah, and get all of our stuff off of the
cart. But I have our giant lead safe in here.
SAM: Oh yeah.
ASHLEY: How heavy is it?
LAURA: It's pretty heavy.
MATT: As you guys are having this conversation,
the regiment is coming up over a nearer hill and
it's about half a mile off from you now. As it's
marching, you can hear the distant rustling of
hundreds and hundreds of footfalls making their way
through the field.
TRAVIS: In our direction?
MATT: It looks like they're going to be probably
passing in front of you.
SAM: Should we hide?
MARISHA: I rolled a 15.
MATT: You rolled a 15? There is no natural paths
here, it's an open field. There are areas where
the grass isn't quite as dense, and there are some
spots where some of the dirt isn't as receptive to
grass. You find patches of dry ground, but there
are no paths that you notice leading out of this
space, unfortunately.
TALIESIN: You don't know any Mending magic, do
you?
LAURA: (gasps) I have Mending! I have a Mending
cantrip.
MATT: You do. What's the space on Mending?
TALIESIN: You're welcome. I'm sitting here
thinking, if only we had a Mending cantrip of some kind.
LAURA: I have that!
LIAM: I have, for two minutes, been thinking: If
only I had the Mending spell.
LAURA: You guys, I can mend things. Thanks for
reminding me on that, Molly.
TALIESIN: I just had to say it out loud.
SAM: Can you try it on the wheel?
LIAM: (pigeon coo)
LAURA: Yeah, I can try it.
SAM: Let's just do it! Let's see what happens.
MATT: As you focus on the front wheel, the one
that had just dented inward and the wood
splintered a bit, that was barely keeping it up,
the wheel rights itself. The metal bends back into
place, the wood splinters kick right in, the
spokes are as if they were untouched.
LAURA: Guys, I'm amazing!
SAM: Yes, you are!
LAURA: That would have been way more amazing if
I'd remembered that I could do this. Let me try it
on this other wheel, though.
SAM: Wait, we have two broken wheels?
MATT: Yeah, one was partially damaged, the other
one was pretty wrecked. The other wheel,
unfortunately, has taken a fair amount of damage
from the impact, and the lower half of it has
broken inward, it's splintered out and it's bent
its way off of the axle. Unfortunately, it's a bit
too big for the Mending cantrip to fix.
ASHLEY: Can I try to punch it into place?
MATT: It's pretty wrecked. You do have three
wheels, which means you could try it.
ASHLEY: One of us could be a wheel?
MATT: Yasha curls up around the axle.
MARISHA: How far away is the army?
MATT: You probably have about ten minutes before
they cross over the byway.
MARISHA: Okay, I'm going to come over and be like:
I think we should hide and wait until these guys
pass with this being the situation.
LIAM: How tall is the grass around here?
MATT: Beauregard, Caleb, Molly and Jester, you
guys notice, breaking away from the regiment above,
you see a cluster of horses heading in your
direction. You are out in the open.
MARISHA: Are we going to get questioned?
SAM: We could pull the cart off the road if Yasha
picks it up and runs along with it.
ASHLEY: I could try. We could also kill those
people and take their horses.
LAURA: No, I think the army would see it.
TRAVIS: I'll use Disguise Self and I'll turn
myself into a crownsguard.
MATT: Okay.
MARISHA: Nott, you should hide.
LAURA: We should look like we're people that are
peasants or something.
MARISHA: I agree, what's our story?
TRAVIS: I'm escorting you to the Labenda Swamp.
Right? To retrieve stuff for the crown? For
Zadash?
LAURA: No. We needed help because our family is
in the swamp.
ASHLEY: We could say we were helping out-- what
was her name?
MARISHA: We're just traveling hired hands. We are
going to go to the swamp and look for yard work.
TRAVIS: You should move the safe.
SAM: In the swamp?
LAURA: I push the safe off the cart.
TRAVIS: Yeah, Yasha and Jester should take the
safe.
MATT: (horse galloping)
SAM: Are there any woods or anywhere to hide?
MATT: It's high grass. The grass off the road
where you guys are standing right now is, for you,
almost shoulder-high.
SAM: I'm going to go in the grass.
MATT: Stealth check.
TALIESIN: I'm just going to sit on the wagon
looking bored.
LAURA: I just bought it. It's in the bag.
SAM: 22. Am I still drunk? Do I need to--?
MATT: No, you've been traveling for half a day
since you left, so you've pretty much sobered up.
MARISHA: Maybe they can help us fix our wheel.
TALIESIN: That's my thought.
LAURA: The good stuff's in my bag. Don't worry.
MATT: Five horses have now galloped up and slow to
a trot as they come up alongside, loosely circling
the side of your cart, in the direction of where
the legion is. They approach; they are all dressed
in Righteous Brand full armor, helmets on, blades
or bows slung across the shoulders. One of them
approaches, "Hail!"
LAURA, TALIESIN, and ASHLEY: Hail.
MARISHA: Good day.
MATT: "Apologies. We're going to be crossing the
road here shortly. We may require your patience
"and shifting--"
TALIESIN: We have a broken wheel, anyway. We're
not moving at a particular speed at the moment.
LAURA: Could you help us?
MATT: "Of course. Just of curiosity, where are you
headed?"
LAURA: We are headed to this swamp place.
TALIESIN: We are headed north.
TRAVIS: Labenda.
MARISHA: The Labenda Swamp.
MATT: "Labenda? I wouldn't wish it upon my worst
foe. Well, good luck. I am Captain Maximilian from
"Druvenlode."
TALIESIN: Captain?
LAURA: What does he look like?
MATT: Through the helmet, you see a well-trimmed
bit of chin facial hair, short, comes from under
the lip. No mustache, but you can't see if it
continues to the rest of his face.
LIAM: Where's he from again?
SAM and MATT: Druvenlode.
LIAM: Druvenlode.
LAURA: Load or loat?
MATT: Druvenlode.
LAURA: Max Load, got it.
TALIESIN: Goddamn it.
LIAM: Where are you all headed?
MATT: I'm going to do a little hashmark every
time.
LIAM: Just carve it on the back of your DM's
screen like a prisoner.
MATT: At the end of the campaign, you look at my
side of the Wyrmwood table and it's all these
horrible marks carved into the wood.
TRAVIS: Like Zsasz from the Batman comics?
LIAM: Captain, where are you headed en masse like
this today?
MATT: "Well, it seems that the forces of the
Empire are heading east to keep the rest of you
"safe. Let me see what we can do."
TALIESIN and LAURA: Thank you so much.
MATT: He turns the horse around and begins to head
on back, three follow him while two stay in the
area. Not close to you, but holding down the fort,
keeping an eye on the road and look behind.
SAM: Do either of them have saddlebags?
MATT: They both do.
SAM: Can I do a little Mage Hand-y? A little
fishing in the one that's closest to me?
MATT: You very well may. Make a sleight of hand
check.
LIAM: Do any of us see this?
TALIESIN: This can't possibly end poorly.
SAM: 24.
MATT: None of you see this, especially not him or
his horse.
MARISHA: You included the horse.
MATT: Horses notice things.
TRAVIS: Fuck you, horse.
MATT: The saddlebag flips open gingerly, then
reaches in and a small pouch, relatively heavy,
slips out and makes its way over to you and into
your grasp.
SAM: I hold on to it. Can I peek inside?
MATT: You do. It is filled with dry oats and
corn.
SAM: It's a good one.
TRAVIS: Bunch of little things. Can we ask you--
are you familiar with the Labenda Swamp?
MATT: The captain has ridden off, so one of the
two other people that are there-- you now look
within the armor. One is male and one is female,
and the female soldier turns to you. She has a
tense stare and a broad-shouldered look as she
turns in your direction. "I've never been, but I
"hear it's pretty shitty."
TRAVIS: Seems the same as what he just said,
we're not quite sure what to expect. Any tales or
stories you can share?
MATT: "From what I've heard, at the very least,
it's not very comfortable, but people seem to
"like it and live there still. It's one of the
older provinces in the empire, that I know. Not
"for me."
LIAM: Would you rather be headed there or where
you're heading?
MATT: "That's not really a question,
unfortunately. In times of war, we go where we're
"needed. We're needed to the east so that you don't
have to go and wade into the battlefield
"yourselves."
LAURA: How long have you been a soldier?
MATT: "This will be my eighth circle."
MARISHA: Have you seen the frontline before?
MATT: "I've not, I'm both terrified and eager. You
know, you daydream of glory and then, who knows
"once you get there. But I get the sense that
you've seen your fair share of battle in your day,
"right?" Looks right towards Yasha, this hulking
woman with a giant two-handed greatsword on her back.
TRAVIS: (high-pitched pigeon voice) Stop smiling!
Anything else but that!
MATT: At this point, another series of clomping
catches up to you, and you can see the captain's
returned with two men who are in similar colors
as the Righteous Brand regiment, but not in armor.
They carry large packs on their side, and you can
hear the jangling of metal implements inside. One
of them has pieces of wood, some strips. They get
off the horse, and at this the captain goes, "Right,
"there's the cart. Do your business. We're going
to do our best to help you get back to the road, friends."
MARISHA and TRAVIS: Thanks, captain.
LAURA: Thank you so much for your help.
MATT: "Of course." The two gentlemen go over and
start giving each other commands. "Lift up
"there." One of them pulls it up.
LAURA: Do you need any help?
MATT: "By all means, if you have the-- right,
then." Jester's now holding the whole cart up by
herself. They get down, pull the wheel off and
begin to bend it back into place. One of them goes
through a small pack of various pieces of wood,
some that appear to have been soaked and are somewhat
pliable. Ends up replacing the broken wood,
nailing it in place. Just to be safe, they take
some rope and tie it over the wheel very taut to try
and hold the bent wood. "This should get you at
"least to town. I can't guarantee it will last you
for a long journey, but I recommend a replacement
"once you get there."
LAURA: Thank you so much.
MATT: "Of course. Come on." They get back on their
horses and they ride back. At this point, the
regiment has now crossed over the road, and you
can now see hundreds of soldiers going across the
Byway. The captain gives a nod, puts his helmet
back on. "Well, I wish you all luck. Stay safe and
"I hope that if luck is kind to us, we'll cross
paths again."
LIAM: Stay safe as well. Thank you.
LAURA: Stay safe.
SAM: Bye.
LAURA: Everybody be safe.
MATT: They turn around and they make their way
back up to the rest of the army. About 25 minutes
or so it takes for the group of soldiers to
finally cross over the path.
LAURA: Actually it was faster than I expected.
MATT: Yeah, it wasn't a huge army, per se. Not as
big as the one you saw leaving Zadash. In total,
it might have been, maybe, 1000 soldiers.
TALIESIN: The Kiss army, basically.
MATT: Now that the way is opened, your cart seems to
have been temporarily repaired. You make your way your way
back onto the road and continue your heading
north.
LAURA: Could I try Mending again and see if what
they did made it to where I can fix it now?
MATT: Sure, I'll say for the purposes of this,
make a wisdom check.
LAURA: Oh, no I'm wise.
TALIESIN: That's the most insane roll I've ever
seen.
LAURA: 23. Wait, that's a lie, that was a save.
20.
MATT: There you go. Because you were so close, you
were able to see all of the points in which they
attempted to repair the wheel and now that they've
closed the gap on what is currently cracked and on
the verge of collapsing if this fix wasn't
centered around it, you manage to concentrate and
with that each one of the--
LAURA: Traveler be with us.
MATT: You watch as the wood refixes itself and
becomes a solid wheel.
LAURA: Ta-da.
TRAVIS: That's very handy, Jester.
LAURA: Thank you.
ASHLEY: Very cool.
LIAM: Good trick.
MARISHA: It's fitting that the Traveler helps fix
a wheel.
SAM: Amazing.
LAURA: Right?
MARISHA: It's very poetic.
LAURA: Yes.
MARISHA: I like it.
LAURA: You see that, Caleb, that's almost as
powerful as the shit that you do.
SAM: Let's not get crazy, what he can do is
incredible. Have you seen him in action?
LAURA: Have you seen my lollipop?
MARISHA: She did just lift up the carriage.
SAM: Oh yes, she's super strong, yeah. Just
her magic, there's no--
LAURA: Don't make me Inflict Wounds on you, Nott.
TALIESIN: There's nothing that's being said here
that can't be said at full momentum.
SAM: Oh no, are going to ring a bell in my head?
MATT: With that, the cart lurches forward. You all
have to catch up real fast to scamper back onto
the cart as Molly has picked it up again. You get
yourself back on the road and heading northward.
LAURA: Yeah!
MATT: Keeping watch, for the rest of the way,
eventually the sun comes close to setting and you
haven't quite gotten within visual range of the
swamp. You're coming to a relatively hilly portion of
the terrain and ahead most of the valley tends to
cruise upward where the hills are now cresting and
obscuring the horizon. But the sun is setting, so
you may be looking somewhere to camp, unless you
want to push through the night.
LIAM: I think we should camp, because then we
will hit this swamp at a more advantageous
moment.
TRAVIS: Let's see if we can find a rise on one of
these hills to camp on the top.
MARISHA: Hey Fjord, have you had any more weird
dreams?
TRAVIS: No, very peaceful, actually.
MARISHA: Are your dreams affected by the weather?
Like if it's cold, do you throw up ice shards
instead of salt water or something?
TRAVIS: No.
MARISHA: Because that can be cool.
TRAVIS: Yeah, I could see how that would appear
that way.
LAURA: And kind of painful, probably.
TRAVIS: More that. It hasn't happened that
frequently.
MARISHA: Okay.
TRAVIS: Yeah, but not yet. If it does, I'll let
you know.
LIAM: How frequent is it?
TRAVIS: It's only happened a couple of times,
honestly.
LIAM: A couple of times you have spit out
seawater?
TRAVIS: Well, yeah, just the once, actually.
MARISHA: We don't know if it's seawater, though,
right? It could be like saline.
LIAM: Saline solution?
SAM: Do you wear contacts?
LIAM: Hey, you're not supposed to drink that
stuff. It's for rinsing.
TRAVIS: I don't abide by the rules. I walk my own
path. Like a twister, I was born to walk alone.
MARISHA: Maybe that's your problem this whole
time.
TRAVIS: Fuck the rules. Give me saline or give me
death.
MATT: Smash cut to Fjord's grave.
LAURA: Well, shit.
TALIESIN: We gave him saline.
LIAM: This week's episode brought to you by Bausch
& Lomb.
MATT: As you continue up towards this particular
hillcrest, there is a small patch of high bushes
in an older campsite. There is a clearing of the
grass, where it's mostly rock and dirt with some
bits of dried brush. There's a rock formation,
with a bit of charcoal and blackened ground where
a fireplace had previously been set.
TALIESIN: This will do just perfectly. Let's do
this.
TRAVIS: Let's set it up.
MATT: You guys bring the cart off to the side, set
up your evening arrangement, light a small fire
there in that same rock circle. Who's taking first
watch?
LIAM: Silver thread around the fire.
TRAVIS: I'll take first.
TALIESIN: I'll join.
MATT: One of you make the watch roll with
advantage, as the other is giving aid.
TALIESIN: Natural 20.
MATT: Nice. In the vicinity, as the dark night
takes over, there is no moonlight, it is very
dark. But you do catch a flash in the distance.
(rumbling) And another.
TALIESIN: One-one thousand, two-one thousand,
three-one thousand. Is it getting closer?
MATT: You listen for a while and it is getting
closer.
MARISHA: Are we exposed? Like, out?
MATT: You guys are out in the open, yeah.
TRAVIS: We're at the top of a rise, so we can see
really well.
TALIESIN: We're going to get rained on.
MARISHA: Can we all huddle under the--
LAURA: You're not awake.
MARISHA: I mean, (snoring)
TRAVIS: I don't mind rain.
TALIESIN: Do we have anything-- We don't have
actual tents, do we? We don't have proper tents?
MATT: Not unless any of you have it within your pack,
but otherwise all you have is your cart.
LAURA: This is why we should have taken that circus
tent, man.
TRAVIS: I have an idea, let's carve the bellies
out of the horses, and we climb inside.
SAM: So that we don't get wet?
TRAVIS: Yeah.
MARISHA: Full tauntaun style.
LAURA: Are there any caves nearby? I mean, we're
kind of by a thing?
MATT: You're in the middle of a field right now.
It's hilly terrain and the topography shifts a
bit, but right now all you see is darkness beyond
your immediate darkvision peripheral.
TRAVIS: We're going to get wet.
LIAM: How many of us can fit under that cart, I
wonder.
TRAVIS: Even then, the ground's going to get--
LIAM: Disgusting.
MARISHA: Soaking.
MATT: The occasional flash of light you see in the
distance begins to frame an ominous shape far to
the north: the beginnings of a mountain range that
you have been able to see previously or hadn't
paid attention with the darkening sky.
LAURA: Did you guys wake us up because of the
storm, I'm assuming?
TRAVIS: I think the storm's going to wake you up
soon enough.
MATT: And it does. Those who are taking the first
part of your evening's rest come to as the storm
begins to come over. The weather gets colder, you
feel the rain imminent within the next hour.
MARISHA: I was curious of that too.
LAURA: What is he looking for?
SAM: The map.
LAURA: Oh, it's right there.
SAM: (singing) Get out the map!
MARISHA: How close are we to the Xhorhasian
border?
LAURA: We're pretty far away.
LIAM: We're going here.
TRAVIS: These are not explosions, orange or red?
MATT: No, these were lightning bolts in the
distance in the storm.
MARISHA: Oh there's Druvenlode! There's Max Load.
LIAM: Silberquel Ridge, perhaps? Hupperdook is
beyond that mountain range.
LAURA: Does that mean that guy was named after a
whole city?! Does that means he owns a city?
MATT, TRAVIS, and LIAM: He was from Druvenlode.
LAURA: Oh, I thought that was his last name.
SAM: His name was Captain Maximilian.
MARISHA: I mean, if he was taking the Leonardo da
Vinci approach then it could be accurate. Max of Lode!
TRAVIS: Hmm. I think we just need to hunker down.
LAURA: I'll take the next watch because I don't
mind the rain.
MATT: The rain begins to kick in your vicinity.
ASHLEY: I'll take next watch, too.
MATT: The fire begins to go out.
TALIESIN: I'm getting underneath the cart.
SAM: Me too!
MARISHA: I'm going to get on the cart and try and
put my cloak over me.
MATT: Okay, the cloak you have is treated with
simple wax to try and resist most water. You'll
probably be a bit soggy in the morning, but it's
doable.
TRAVIS: I'm staying up. I like the rain.
MARISHA: I look at Molly underneath me on the cart
and I fart a little bit. Just a little.
SAM: I'm down here, too!
(farting noise)
TRAVIS: Not a little one. Don't gamble on those.
MATT: Alcohol and beef jerky, man.
TALIESIN: At least I'll definitely notice the
smell like fucking roses.
MARISHA: Sorry.
MATT: The first watch goes beyond the rain without
incident. Who is taking the second watch?
LIAM: It is a big group of us, yeah? Is there
enough people left over to do the last watch?
ASHLEY: I'll take last.
MATT: Well, there's only been the first watch.
TRAVIS: Which was Molly and I, next one is Caleb
and Jester.
MATT: Okay, I didn't hear that part. So Caleb
and Jester, who's keeping up? Who's the point man
on that watch?
LIAM: Oh, your eyesight is better than mine.
MATT: Make your check.
LAURA: Just regular plain old check?
MATT: At this point it's midnight, so it's pitch
black.
LAURA: That's not bad. 19.
MATT: You keep watch throughout the area, now
without the warm glow of the fire to give you a
good visual perspective. All you can go by are the
distant flashes and sometimes close flashes of
lightning. (thunder) A loud one hits, probably
striking a tree no more than two or three miles
from where you are. All of you get jostled awake
for a moment before getting yourself back to sleep.
LAURA: Big one, did you see that?
MATT: If I could have everybody leave the table
except for Yasha, please.
SAM: What?!
LIAM: The storm!
LAURA: Shit! Storm!
MARISHA: Oh shit!
(yelling)
MATT: As much as everyone else is attempting and
jostling around to get rest through the night's
weather, there's something comforting about the
sound of rolling thunder to you. Always kind of
has been, but more so in recent years. As
unconsciousness comes to you, what usually means
dreamless sleep. Welcome to be dreamless because
not all dreams are good for you. Not all memories
are good for you. But as the dark takes you,
there's a flash of light, the sound of thunder,
and there's a vision. A memory of people all
around you, but faced away. People you know,
people you grew up with, all looking the opposite
direction. It fades to dark. There's another flash
and you've pushed through them and you see an
elevated piece of ground in the central rock in
the shape of a figure, but you can't see it. It's
obscured by the low light. You do know who that
shape is. It goes to dark. It stays dark for a
while, to the point where you are longing for that
next vision, clamoring for it. You feel this
searing pain burning up each of your arms. You
look down, but can see nothing except for flames
curling up the side. Dull bluish purple flames
that create the outline of your forearms. It burns
up to the tips of your fingers. Flash once more
and around you are bodies. Creatures, people,
children, monsters, dozens and dozens of corpses
carved and torn asunder. Where you saw the blue
flame up your arm you just see blood, dripping,
fresh, crimson onto the ground. The only sound you
hear. Your vision fades to darkness once more.
(thunder) Another blast and there you see it: the
ruined statue. The one beacon of nameless hope
that pulled you out of that darkness. Missing part
of its torso, the head mostly cleaved, akilter.
The land seemingly ejecting the presence of what
this statue represents. Your eyes look down and
focus at the base and as the vision begins to fade
to black once more, your eyes focus on that single
disc: the four bolts of lightning. The darkness
takes you once more. The next flash (thunder)
hits, and you're just walking. Your lips are
parched. Your muscles ache. You look over your
shoulder and you see before you the memory of the
land where you grew up. The waste beyond the
central swamp of Xhorhas. But it is crawling with
thousands and thousands of worms. From this
perspective it looks like it's so small. But for
these worms to be where they are, they would be so
immense at this distance. The perspective is
almost dizzying and you look away. You glance up
back at that mountain and in spite of that pain,
you continue to push. The vision fades and this
time the darkness lingers. Confusion wells in,
the desperation for something. It's not fair. It's
not fair to be given just a few glimpses and no
opportunity, no chance. How do you make this
right? What do you make right? What did you do?
What is there? (thunder) One final, loud,
shattering, shaking flash of light and rolling
thunder brings to you one singular vision of a
figure in the dark center of a storm cloud
swirling. The wind buffets your shoulders with
freezing air. You feel your hair being whipped and
thrown around your face, stinging as it slaps
against your cheeks and eyes. The same figure,
that statue that had pulled you from the darkness
once before, stands made of the same roaring and
roiling clouds and rain and wind, stepping out of
the sky towards you. You can see the muscle-bound
form, the gray flesh, formless yet solid as it
steps down like a titan from the sky. The foot
lands but a quarter-mile from where you stand,
but the impact causes the ground beneath you to
quake. (thunder) You strangely feel comfort. You
can't look away from this figure. As the hand
comes down and gently rests on the ground before
you, before it turns upward to a palm, a
sourceless voice comes into your head, a voice
you've never heard. For all that you've chased
this mystery, what this beacon is, this is the first
time you've heard a voice through this imagery.
All it says is, "You walk the right path. Be
"strong. Don't forget who you were, and decide who
you will become." The vision fades back into
darkness. (thunder) Another blast of thunder and
this time you wake up suddenly. The rain is still
pouring outside. You're amongst the grass. Can we
get everybody else back in, please?
ASHLEY: Okay, okay, okay. Holy moly.
MATT: You wake up. You're shivering a bit from the
cold and the night air. The ground has dampened,
even beneath the cart. You were sleeping beneath
the cart, right?
ASHLEY: Near it.
TRAVIS: Did she go back to New York?!
ASHLEY: I'm here!
TRAVIS: Okay, good.
MARISHA: That would be fucked up, if you used that
as your exit. Wait, where-- what do you mean
Ashley left?
MATT: You forgot to say goodbye. She's just gone.
LIAM: (singing) Never say goodbye!
SAM: So was she a Xhorhasian spy and are we all
dead in our sleep?
MATT: Roll a perception check-- no.
TRAVIS: Is it water or blood that we're covered
in?
MATT: As you come to consciousness through this
evening's rest for your final watch, as you gather
after that sleep is probably not going to find its
way to you again for the rest of the evening. Who
is taking the final watch with you?
LIAM: Oh man, Jester and I talked about
everything. Like, everything. About childhood,
favorite kind of ice cream. We know everything
about each other now.
TALIESIN: Pistachio or Rocky Road?
LIAM: I'm going to mull it over in my sleep, good
night.
TRAVIS: Third watch is going to be either Yasha
and Nott, or Yasha and Beau.
SAM: I'll take it.
MATT: One of you two make the watch perception
roll.
SAM: You can do it.
MATT: Just make a single roll.
ASHLEY: Okay, eight?
MATT: As you all rest for the final length of the
evening, Yasha and Nott, you stay up chatting as
much as you like or staying quiet as much as you
like. The rain still pouring through in sheets
heavily.
SAM: How you holding up? Can I go under you? Can
you be like a shelter for me? Like a lean-to?
ASHLEY: Sure, if you want to get under my hood
here?
SAM: Wing?
ASHLEY: Well, it doesn't come out all the time.
SAM: I don't know how it works.
ASHLEY: It's just if I get really mad.
SAM: But your arm is probably big enough to shield
me from the rain. Thank you.
ASHLEY: Are you dry?
SAM: Thank you, yes. I don't like to get wet.
ASHLEY: I feel like I don't know if I want to keep
doing this.
SAM: That's okay.
ASHLEY: Okay. Could you give me a moment?
SAM: Give you a moment?
ASHLEY: I'm going to go to the tree over there.
SAM: Do you have to take a piss?
ASHLEY: Yes.
SAM: All right, I won't look.
ASHLEY: Okay.
SAM: I look.
ASHLEY: I go where near the tree was struck close
to us.
MATT: It's about a quarter-mile walk from where you
are, but you can head there.
LAURA: That's not that long of a walk, quarter
mile.
MATT: Yeah, you can get there. A little jaunt down
there. Soaking wet as the rain still pours down.
You approach and you come to the half-splintered
form of one of the larger trees in this section.
There are a few dotted singular trees or clusters
around, but this was once a tall and proud tree.
As you approach, you can see near the top it's been
carved right down the center and part of it has
splintered and exploded. There are chunks of
wood around the vicinity and you can see even
amongst the rain, on the interior of the exposed
trunk there are still faintly orange glowing
embers from where the bolt had struck through the
night.
SAM: (whispered) And a baseball bat.
MARISHA: (whispered) Lemonade.
ASHLEY: I heard you, and I wanted to thank you for
saving me, and I promise you I will be the
best servant you ever had. Thank you. I'm going to
take a piece of the bark and I'd like to carve the
symbol into the tree, the Stormlord symbol. Not
very good, but just to have it there.
MATT: The bark is a harder utensil to utilize to
carve into bark.
ASHLEY: Sorry, I take a piece of the bark to have
and I use my sword.
MATT: You can take it and carve in the edge there
using the tip. It takes you a few minutes to do
so, but you manage to complete the shell of the
symbol's outline and then make your trek back to
join up with Nott.
ASHLEY: I got a piece of this bark from that
powerful lightning that struck it.
SAM: You got bark from a lightning-struck tree?
ASHLEY: Yeah, I wanted to put it in my things. I
like to have things from nature.
SAM: Do you collect things? I collect things.
ASHLEY: Yeah, I do!
SAM: What kind of collections do you have?
ASHLEY: I pull out my book. I mostly put flowers
and things in here because I'm collecting them for
someone and I want to keep them all in here from
my travels.
SAM: Oh, it's beautiful! Is it a special someone?
ASHLEY: Yes.
SAM: Someone back home? That's so nice.
ASHLEY: Yeah. But what are the things you
collect?
SAM: I collect all sorts of things. I have a
button collection. I used to collect stamps, I
used to collect different kinds of vials of
different sorts of fluids and things like that. I
collect soles of shoes. Not shoes, just the
soles.
ASHLEY: Oh, just the bottom bits.
SAM: Yeah, they come in many different shapes and
sizes. The cobblers throw them away when they're
bad. You can fish them out of the trash and you
can have a whole bunch of them.
ASHLEY: What do you use them for?
SAM: Nothing. I mean, you can play a little drum
thing with them.
ASHLEY: And should you need to resole your
shoes--
SAM: Sure, if you string them together, they make
a Roman gladiator belt sort of a thing.
ASHLEY: Have you ever put them one on top of the
other and make a platform shoe?
SAM: Ooh, I could be a little bit taller! I think
if you put two on top of each other and push them
in, it looks like lips are talking!
ASHLEY: Cool! Well.
SAM: I feel like we've gotten to know each other
so well!
ASHLEY: Very much so. Do you want to get back
under here?
SAM: Yes, under your gigantic arm, thank you.
MATT: As Nott cuddles up alongside Yasha's
comparably hulking form to keep out of the water,
you finish your final watch as you both watch the
sun begin to rise over the horizon-- or at least,
you can't see the sun, but you can see the day
grows lighter as it makes its way over the cloud
cover. The rain is not quite as strong, and the
lightning seems to have subsided, but it is still
a light drizzle when it comes to the proper
morning. As the rest of you come to consciousness,
completing your long rest, the day is yours, damp
as it may be. The low fog and mist still
encompasses most of the valley around you, and
it's a beautiful sight as you glance around first
thing in the morning. You can see only the tops of
the hills slowly breaking through the layer of
cold mist that hits the lower valleys between that
shifting topography. As you look off, you can now
have a much better view of the Silberquel Ridge
above this large mountain range that marks the
geological center of the empire. As you glance
down, you can barely make out what might be the swamp.
LIAM: What's the temperature like right now?
MATT: It's pretty cold. I'd say it's probably in
the high 40s.
LIAM: We have to be miserable right now because we
are soaking wet and it is cold.
TALIESIN: This is not my first time.
LAURA: Ah, it's like a day at the beach!
MATT: It's not freezing point yet, but it's
definitely cold and wet.
TALIESIN: Yeah, I miss having a proper tent, and
the wagons were nice. I miss that.
LAURA: We should get some waxed canvas or
something.
TALIESIN: Something at least.
TRAVIS: How'd the rest of the night go? Any
lightning strikes or anything crazy?
LAURA: There was a big one close by.
TRAVIS: There was?
LAURA: It happened right before I went to sleep.
TRAVIS: Did you see it?
MATT: Where Molly pointed over there, you see what
was once a tree is destroyed and splintered.
TRAVIS: That's so rare!
ASHLEY: It tipped it right over.
TRAVIS: That's ama-- I mean, right? Lightning
strike?
LAURA: Don't know.
SAM: Happens every time it rains.
TRAVIS: I'm going to run over and look at the
tree.
MATT: It's impressive.
TRAVIS: Yeah. Can I take some little twigs and
pieces of wood and put it in my little component
pouch?
TALIESIN: They're good luck.
TRAVIS: That's what I've heard.
TALIESIN: Yeah, tree struck by lightning, very
good luck.
LAURA: Really?
TRAVIS: I've only seen it hitting the water and
it's just (explosion).
MARISHA: I heard it was bad luck. That's what I
was told.
TALIESIN: It's bad luck for normal people.
MARISHA: Fuck.
LAURA: So what kind of people--?
TALIESIN: Everybody else!
LAURA: So I should go?
TALIESIN: Absolutely!
LAURA: I'm going to go get some of it too!
TRAVIS: Yeah?
SAM: Let's take the whole fucking tree!
TALIESIN: Dig it up!
(laughter)
MARISHA: Attach it to the back of the horse. Go!
TRAVIS: Destroy the cart?
MARISHA: Yeah!
TRAVIS: Fuck.
TALIESIN: I go over to take a look at it.
LIAM: I am working on a thing. I have not got it
figured out yet, but I think that I could make
some sort of shelter for us so that this doesn't
have to happen again. I haven't worked out all
the-- what?
SAM: A magical shelter?
TALIESIN: Or just out of waxed cloth?
MARISHA: Yeah, how do you mean?
LIAM: No, magic, of course. But I don't have the--
I've been working on it, but I haven't struck to the--
SAM: You need more paper?
MARISHA: You need more incense?
LIAM: Well, I always need those things, but I need
more time and more research.
TALIESIN: Well, if you come up with an ingredients
list, we'll be happy to drum stuff up.
LIAM: Thank you, Mollymauk.
TALIESIN: Talking about making shelter, that
sounds great.
TRAVIS: Yeah.
MARISHA: What kind of a shelter?
LIAM: This sucks.
TRAVIS and TALIESIN: Yeah, it does.
MARISHA: Like a dome, like a bubble dome? How do
you mean?
LIAM: I have higher hopes of-- I mean this is a
long ways off, but I would love a large home or a
mansion of some kind that you can (snaps) on a
whim. Doesn't that sound amazing?
LAURA: That's impossible. You can't make something
like that!
SAM: Caleb can do it if he sets his mind to it!
TALIESIN: Like some sort of phantom manor is what
you're speaking of. It would appear--
ASHLEY: That sounds like that wouldn't be
something that's real.
TRAVIS: Yeah, I've never heard of anything like
that.
ASHLEY: Me neither.
TALIESIN: Doesn't have to be real to be interesting.
LIAM: We have all of us seen magic in our lives.
TALIESIN: I like this plan. I'm into it.
LIAM: Nothing is impossible.
ASHLEY: But I see from her, you know? She fixed a
wheel.
LAURA: I fixed a wheel.
LIAM: That is correct.
ASHLEY: Naturally, she could make a house next.
LAURA: I could do it because I can make a giant
lollipop.
LIAM: You have faith, so you should have faith.
LAURA: I have lots of faith.
TRAVIS: If you can, Caleb, that would be quite
remarkable.
LAURA: Is it considered faith if you just really like
somebody?
TRAVIS and TALIESIN: No.
LAURA: Oh.
TRAVIS: Well listen, nothing gets the blood warmed
like movement, so perhaps we should pick up and
get going.
TALIESIN: I'm going to, before we take off, take a
look at that tree that got hit. I want to examine
how it was struck by lightning.
MATT: Make an investigation check.
MARISHA: Beau does pushups while waiting for
Molly.
MATT: Actually, this would be more of a nature
check.
TALIESIN: All right, nature. Three.
MATT: It's struck by lightning, man. Pretty
impressive.
TALIESIN: Is this practically like a little bowl
now, or did it split?
MATT: It split, and a lot of the tree is still
standing, but it's broken open from the center,
and one half of it's broken away and shot off into
multiple pieces.
TALIESIN: I'm going to drop a piece of silver in
the center so the next person who comes around and
examines this thing finds a piece of silver.
MATT: Okay, cool.
LIAM: Also, Caleb has watched Beauregard go to
town on 100 pushups or something, and I go maybe
40 feet away and I try as well. I do one pushup,
and then I go study Siff Duthar's spell tome some
more instead of going to two.
MATT: Fair enough.
SAM: Are we waiting here for a while?
LAURA: No.
MATT: No, you guys are moving on.
SAM: Oh, we're on a moving cart?
MATT: You are now.
LAURA: I want to ride on a horse today!
MATT: Jester jumps onto one of the horses' backs.
As you guys begin to pick up speed and head down,
you're now at the very top of this major series of
hill clusters and making your way down towards the
base of the Silberquel Ridge.
SAM: As we travel, I'm going to try to make acid.
Probably not a great idea, but I'm going to--
MATT: Do you have alchemy supplies on you?
SAM: Yeah, I bought a kit. I've been trying to do
it for a while, but we've never stopped.
MATT: All right. I would like you to make-- hold
on, it's roll plus proficiency because you're
proficient in alchemy, plus, this will have to be
dexterity at disadvantage because you're in the
back of a moving cart.
TRAVIS: Wooden wheel cart.
SAM: 16 plus proficiency is 19.
MATT: Correct.
SAM: But now I roll at disadvantage.
LIAM: Roll a 20.
SAM: Nine. That's a 12.
MATT: You manage to succeed in spite of the-- at
one point, it gets a little dodgy and you almost
drop it and catch it before it begins to spill the
nearly completed acidic formula all over the
center of the wooden cart, eating through it.
TRAVIS: You're making cocktails?
SAM: Yeah.
MATT: You manage to complete one vial of acid, so
you can mark that down.
SAM: One vial of acid, great.
MATT: As you guys approach the mountain range, you
can see the clouds now that have pressed down
obscure the peaks of the top of the range. You can
see the darkened mountainous form vanishing up
into the top, gray, whereas in the distance,
sheets of rain that are still coming down much
heavier to the north obscure your ability to see
further beyond the northward valley to either side
of the range. You also see the southern base of
the mountains, which is the direction you're
heading. You get the sense that the watershed--
that most of the mountain range seems to almost
lean to a southward direction, so the watershed of
all the rain pours and slides down the mountain to
this one central southern area, and there you see
the darkened, tangled, thick swamp of Labenda,
your destination.
LAURA: Ugh, it's going to suck even more because
of this storm.
MATT: Sitting deep green and distant, tangled and
sprawling before you.
LIAM: How far up is it about?
MATT: From where you are now, I'd say it's eight
or so miles.
LIAM: Okay.
LAURA: Hey, at least it's cold so there won't be a
lot of bugs around. Normally, bugs are terrible in
swamps, I hear.
TALIESIN: I'd rather be cold than have bugs.
LAURA: Right?
TALIESIN: Yeah. It's a very fair point.
MATT: Continuing your path on for a little bit of
the morning, eventually you begin to watch as the
grasses begin to give way to more... moistened--
that's a fun word to use, moistened-- terrain. The
normal dry-- even after a rain, the damp ground
is now becoming sludgy, and the path itself, the
road, seems to have been well-built and set for
this type of travel. But even then, it's starting
to gather on the wheels a bit as you ride through,
and you can see bits of it are clustering up and
leaving this groove in the ground behind you.
TALIESIN: Who's on a horse? Am I on the cart, or
am I on a horse?
ASHLEY: I'm on a horse.
TALIESIN: I'll be in the cart then.
MARISHA: I'll be in the cart.
LIAM: Cart.
TALIESIN: I'm going to take one of the swords and
start using the flat of the blade to scrape the
wheel and give it an edge to start removing the
mud off of it and hop between wheels.
MATT: Okay, and you move around each one. It
doesn't get too bad, thankfully, because it's
still pretty slick. When it clumps on, it
generally slides off. It's not immediately damp
from the first time for most of the vicinity
here.
LAURA: Oh no, and if you start to lose hope, your
horse sinks into the mud and it's gone forever.
TRAVIS: That fucking movie traumatized me.
MATT: The rain does eventually begin to subside.
However, the edge of the swamp begins to breach
the path that you're heading. You begin to see the
swamp grasses take over from the hillside. You
begin to see the heavy puddles of swamp bog water
beginning to appear to the right and left. The
trees you're used to seeing here in the middle of
the field are giving way to banyan trees and other
thicker-trunked, gnarled bases, heavy, thick
vine-covered canopies. The insects begin to fill
the air with a weird buzzing.
LAURA: Oh, I thought there wouldn't be insects
because it's cold!
LIAM: In addition to the insects, do we start to
become aware of wildlife around? Birds and
beasts?
MATT: Make a perception check.
SAM: Do we know anything about where we're going?
TRAVIS: We're going to see a safe house that the
lights have been out at.
LAURA: We're trying to find Febron Keyes.
SAM: Yeah, but it's a big swamp. Are any of us
good at like wood stuff? Is this me? Am I the girl?
LIAM: I'm good at nature. I've lived in the woods
for a long time.
MARISHA: I'm okay at surviving.
MATT: About half an hour or so of travel along the
road into the center of Labenda Swamp, the humid
air prevents the mounting sweat on your body from
evaporating, causing your sweat to pool in your
armor in uncomfortable ways. Your breathing is
somewhat shallow as you adapt to the moisture in
the air around you. The ever-present hum of the
buzzing insects begins to permeate the atmosphere
around you, while the musky stench of decaying
plants and stagnant water grow stronger the
further in you pass. A very low fog, since it's
still relatively early in the day, sits across the
surface of the water that's exposed in patches
between where the thick roots and soft rotting
vegetation seems to be sitting, like a spongy
ground.
MARISHA: I'm going to take my staff and poke it in
the marshy bits.
MATT: As you push down, it sinks a few inches. As
you pull back, the portion that you had pressed in
remains, but the water begins to fill up the space
where your staff had pushed in.
LIAM: On the plus side, I think sitting in the
cart, that Caleb is probably the cleanest he has
been in two years because it's been raining non
stop.
MATT: You guys continue further into the swamp.
You get about another half hour or so on the path
before Beauregard, Caleb, Molly and Jester, all at
once, you hear this strange trilled cry of some
kind. It's like, (cawing).
LIAM: I cast Mage Armor on myself.
MATT: Mage Armor.
LAURA: That sounds like it was talking, or did
that sound like a bird?
TALIESIN: I think that sounded like a bird
talking.
MARISHA: It sounded like an alert to me.
ASHLEY: I don't think I heard anything.
LAURA: Should we call back?
TALIESIN: What should we call back?
MARISHA: (cawing)
TRAVIS: Okay, that's what we decided to do?
LIAM: That's not a good idea.
TRAVIS: Nope.
MARISHA: Maybe it's a mating call.
LAURA: Maybe it's just a bird.
TALIESIN: I don't see how that's any better.
MATT: You hear it again, only this time it sounds
intense, or frantic. The strange (bird croaking).
MARISHA: Does it sound like multiple, or from the
same source?
MATT: It sounds singular, so far.
LAURA: Where's it coming from? What area?
MATT: It's coming to the right, off the road, like
deep into the swamp.
LAURA: It's over there.
SAM: Are we going to stop? We're moving?
MATT: You guys are still moving forward on the
path.
LAURA: Can we look, can we see? Can we see into
the swamp?
MATT: Make a perception check.
LAURA: Natural one!
MATT: As you're glancing out there, a piece of
stray vegetation, falling from one of the nearby
trees, flitters into your eye.
LAURA: Ow! I got a leaf-- No, I think it's a
leaf.
SAM: Use Mending.
LAURA: I use Mending on my eye.
MATT: No effect.
TRAVIS: Now that we've continued on, how do the
wagon wheels look on the road as we're moving? Are
they leaving tracks that's filling in with water
behind us at this point?
MATT: Faintly.
TRAVIS: Not like the staff push, though.
MATT: No, she was pushing off the path. This road
is designed to not sink heavy with the rest of
the swamp material. A lot of travel happens in and
out on this main path on the byway. As long as
you're on the path, for the most part, you should
be fine.
MARISHA: Is this considered the Berleben path?
MATT: This is the path to Berleben. The Bromkiln
Byway is the road you're taking.
MARISHA: The Bromkiln. So this is not--
MATT: You're in the swamp.
SAM: The road goes through the swamp.
MATT: Yes, and Berleben is further in the swamp.
LIAM: I would say that Caleb has spent a lot of
time over the last several years in woods. Can I
check to see if I have ever heard that cry
before?
MATT: Make a nature check.
LIAM: That is an 18.
MATT: It sounds similar to a crow cry, but it
sounds frantic. You've heard the sound similar to
it before, when you once as a child watched a crow
snatched in the jaws of some sort of hunting cat.
Right before its bones were crushed and it went
lifeless, it's a very similar sound.
SAM: That's specific.
TRAVIS: No movement that we can see, just the
sound?
MATT: No, just the sound. It's loud enough where
it's not that far off the road, but it's not in
sight right now. There's too many tree trunks
obscuring your vision.
TRAVIS: Branch canopies over us at this point?
MATT: They are, but they're not super thick.
There's still light coming through, and as you
travel, there are bits and pieces that overhang
the road, but you still have open sky ahead of
you. You don't think it's going to continue the
further into the swamp you go.
LAURA: Fjord, will you look at my eye? I think
there's something still in here.
TRAVIS: Yeah, here, look up. Yeah, you got like a
tree booger in it.
LAURA: Fjord, get it.
TRAVIS: Oh, god, this is the worst part. Can I try
and get the boog out of her eye?
MATT: Roll a dexterity check.
SAM: Please be a one. Please be a one. Please be a
one.
TRAVIS: Natural 20.
MATT: With a deft flick of his finger, he
manages to pluck the piece of vegetation from your eye.
LAURA: Wow! My hero.
TRAVIS: I got it, Jester.
LAURA: Thank you Oskar-- I mean Fjord!
MATT: It gently hits the side of Molly's cheek.
LIAM: Fjord regurgitates saline solution.
TRAVIS: I got it, (vomiting).
LAURA: Yasha starts throwing up.
ASHLEY: Uh-oh, it's happening again.
MARISHA: Does there appear to be any sign of
wreckage, or anything else that looks like it
might not have made its way through this path
because of other dangers?
MATT: You, who have been keeping a discerning eye,
and you rolled what on your perception check before?
MARISHA: 15, but that was a bit ago.
MATT: Roll again as you've stopped at this place
here.
MARISHA: That's not as good this time, 12.
MATT: 12. Something shifts in the water ahead,
almost beyond your vision. Something that was
stationary before, and looked like a log that had
been resting in the water, dips away from you in
the direction of the noise.
MARISHA: Nobody move.
TALIESIN: I'm going to gently light up one of my
swords.
MATT: Okay, go ahead and mark that.
MARISHA: If you're going to move, move onto the
cart.
SAM: Have we stopped the cart?
LAURA: But we're on horses.
MARISHA: Are we on horses?
MATT: You guys are still on the path, yeah.
SAM: Should we stop moving the cart?
TRAVIS: What did you see? Yeah, we should stop.
What'd you see?
MARISHA: Something just moved in the water. It
might be able to hear our movements, though.
LAURA: Was it a snake?
MATT: It moved away from you.
MARISHA: It moved away though.
MATT: It moved in the direction of the sound. You
hear it again (panicked bird croaking).
LAURA: I really want to see what it is. Oh, you
don't have a bird, you have a cat.
ASHLEY: Is this terrain similar at all to
Xhorhas?
MATT: This terrain is pretty similar to you, yeah.
In places where you grew up, some hunting and some
places in your nomadic lifestyle put you in
terrain very similar to this. So you're pretty
comfortable here.
ASHLEY: Okay.
MARISHA: I take a ball bearing out and toss it and
throw it into the swamp. See what happens.
MATT: Nothing.
LAURA: Some poor fish is going to try to eat
that.
MARISHA: He's probably going to die. Oh man, poor
guy. He'll be fine.
MATT: What are you guys doing? Anything?
TRAVIS: I'm going to use Minor Illusion, and about
30 feet away above the water, just above the
surface of it, I'm going to create a little
hummingbird and have it whip back and forth above
the water.
TALIESIN: That's clever.
TRAVIS: Just to see what--
MATT: Continues for a bit.
TRAVIS: Move it a little.
MATT: No reaction.
TRAVIS: Make it disappear. I think we're okay.
SAM: Should we continue on, or--?
LAURA: Maybe we should call out and see if Febron
is here.
SAM: Maybe it's Febron, maybe that's a--
LAURA: Maybe it's a call.
LIAM: We're just getting into this swamp right
now, right?
MATT: Yeah, you're maybe an hour into it.
MARISHA: Would we know if this is the stretch of
road that they were talking about, that they were
having issues with?
MATT: They were cut off from the safe house. You
don't know where the safe house is, or what
location it is at.
LAURA: But the safe house is in the swamp, it's
not in Berleben, right?
MATT: As far as you know, yes.
SAM: We press on.
TRAVIS: Maybe not calling out.
LAURA: Maybe we can climb a tree! Are there any
tall trees?
MATT: There are a number of tall trees.
LAURA: Can I start climbing a tree?
MATT: Sure, you want to get a little closer and
climb a tree?
LAURA: Sure.
MATT: Make a general athletics check as you jump
off the side, your legs (slurping) into the swamp,
as they sink about a foot with each step, leaving
these heavy footprints behind that fill with water.
LAURA: 21.
MATT: You make your way through the swamp, the
suction doesn't stop you one bit. You grab the
nearby tree and climb to the top and get off to a
branch and look in the direction. Make a
perception check, please. That's cocked. How could
you do that?
LAURA: It was a really good one if it hadn't been.
Perception ten.
MATT: Ten? That's enough. Over the edge you glance
down and you can see past the tree line, maybe
about 100 or so feet from where you are, there's a
small clearing, this open area. Where the water
is, there is a thick bit of black bog. It looks
almost like a thick swampy, tar-ish little pool.
You can see a part of a tree has fallen into it,
and the liquid is generally darkening the bottom
of where it's been stuck. You don't know how long
it's been there. There is the dark root, and
crooked branches, and elements of it sticking up
in the air. The smell of bog rot is very strong,
even from this proximity to it. You see something
moving in the center of this bog, struggling,
shifting. You see, covered in this tar-like
material and flailing, some sort of humanoid
creature of jet black skin. It's not skin--
feathers. It's fighting against the swamp, it's
small. Shifting out of the water off to the side,
slowly up to the bog, probably what Beau saw
earlier, some sort of reptilian creature with a
long snout and a long tail. Curving around and
making its way slowly towards the bog. As the
flailing bird creature is attempting to give a
(panicked bird croaking).
LAURA: I cast Guiding Bolt on the reptilian
creature.
SAM: How far is it?
LAURA: It's 120 feet distance and you said that
the bog is 100 feet away.
MATT: That's true. That was going to be a-- uh-oh,
over here. What's the DC on that?
LAURA: It's a-- shit, sorry.
MATT: It's all good.
LAURA: Guiding Bolt!
MATT: The DC on any of your spells.
LIAM: It's your proficiency, plus your wisdom,
plus eight.
LAURA: Plus seven.
MATT: Plus seven? It fails. Roll damage.
LAURA: Okay, ah! 4d6, ah! Eight, ten, 13.
MATT: 13 points of damage. All of this divine
energy suddenly bursts and burns around the
creature's body. As it suddenly spins, with this
hiss in the direction, looking around and seeing
nothing there.
LAURA: Don't worry, we'll save you! There's a
thing, and it's trapped and there's the reptile
thing that's going to eat it!
TRAVIS: Where? Which direction?
LAURA: Over there. I point and I start climbing
over and try to get to it.
LIAM: Do we even see her anymore?
MATT: You see her in the tree, you don't see what
she's looking at and pointing at. She climbs down
the tree and begins running in that direction.
LAURA: It's about 100 feet away. Don't worry.
SAM: Don't worry? What?
TALIESIN: What?
MATT: She's ran off.
SAM: Shit.
TRAVIS: Fuck. I'll run off after her.
ASHLEY: Same.
MARISHA: What are we saving?
SAM: I don't know. Right now, we're saving
Jester.
MARISHA: I'm still on a horse, yeah? I'm on a
horse.
MATT: You are, yeah. You're staying on your horse
to get there?
MARISHA: Yeah, I'm staying on my horse!
TRAVIS: You're going to hard tax your horse?
MARISHA: (galloping) How cool is that?
MATT: Well, it's cool for the first minute before
it goes (mud slurping).
LAURA: Guiding Bolt is an attack thing, so I have
to roll to attack.
MATT: Oh, got you. Roll to attack.
LAURA: Oh, no. Okay, it definitely hits. It's plus
seven, 16, 23.
MATT: Yeah, that hits. All right, cool. So
timeline worked out.
LAURA: Yay!
MATT: As you approach, this is the visual from the
side that you see.
TRAVIS: Yay, map time!
LAURA: I'm so glad we checked out what it was.
TRAVIS: (beatboxing)
LAURA: Oh shit!
SAM: So many trees.
LAURA: Oh my god, look at all these trees.
TRAVIS: Damn.
MATT: This here is the gator that you see making
its way there. It is very large.
LAURA: Oh no, it's really big. Look at that teeny
little bird guy.
MATT: Jester, you make your way up over to that
side. The rest of you are currently trying to
catch up on that end of the table. That being the
case, I need everyone to roll initiative.
SAM: Oh, boy.
TRAVIS: Oh, fuck!
TALIESIN: That'll do.
SAM: You know what we never do?
LAURA: What?
SAM: Tap into our pool of luck.
LAURA: Ah, shit! Our fate point.
MARISHA: The thing that we've been hauling
around.
SAM: Yeah, we never use it. We've never ever used
it. Ever.
ASHLEY: Wait, using what?
SAM: You know the dodecahedron thing.
ASHLEY: Oh, yeah.
LAURA: We have to focus on it in the morning.
MARISHA: You have to stare at it for a minute.
MATT: Keep it in mind.
TALIESIN: I have a thought. I have a coin, and
whoever's holding the coin has that for the day.
Then we pass it around, so you have this as a
chip.
LAURA: That's really smart.
TALIESIN: Obviously we didn't do it this morning,
but from now on.
LAURA: We'll just say we pass the coin.
LIAM: Yeah. Luck is for suckers, man.
TALIESIN: Who wants it for tomorrow? Or for next,
for after the fight?
MARISHA: For the next eight hours?
MATT: Heading this direction--
SAM: I'll take it.
LAURA: Let's hope nobody dies in this fight.
LIAM: Also, it's important that it is kept
hidden.
MATT: North is that way. That's the direction you
were traveling was this direction. You're heading
this way.
TRAVIS: North is that direction?
LAURA: Yes.
MATT: Correct. 25 to 20? 20 to 15?
TALIESIN and MARISHA: 15!
MARISHA: Man, that's pretty crappy.
TALIESIN: It's not close enough to really do
anything yet.
MATT: Beau, you got 15?
MARISHA: Mm-hmm.
MATT: Molly, you got 15?
TALIESIN: Uh-huh.
TRAVIS: You assume there's only one of them.
MATT: That brings us to 15 to ten.
LAURA: 14.
SAM: 12.
ASHLEY: 13.
LIAM: 12 as well.
MATT: What'd you get, Jester?
LAURA: 14.
TRAVIS: Jester, Yasha, Caleb, Nott.
MATT: 12?
TRAVIS: Six!
LIAM and TRAVIS: Big six!
MATT: You got a six?
TRAVIS: Yep.
ASHLEY: Oo-wee!
TRAVIS: Shooter, coming out!
MATT: Beau and Molly, you're up first. At a full
double dash, you can catch up, at this point,
almost to Jester. It's rough terrain because it's
a swamp. You guys, we'll say, get about there, and
Molly, you're a little bit behind, because Beau is
a little faster than you.
TALIESIN: Yeah, sure. She probably did a little
(whooshes).
MATT: Correct. That's your turn. That gets us to
Jester.
LAURA: I can go?
MATT: You can go.
LAURA: Oh gosh. Okay! I'm going to cast Spiritual
Weapon!
SAM: Dun-dun-dun-dun lollipop!
ASHLEY: Dun-dun-dun-dun-dun!
MATT: Where are you placing that? 60 feet range?
LAURA: Oh, shit. That's right. It's a 60 foot
range. How far can I get it? That's true. Oh, I
guess I can run forward first before I do it. I'm
going to run forward and try to get up on that tree.
MATT: It's rough terrain against the swamp because
it's very (marshy sloshes).
LAURA: Okay. That's about as far as I can go?
MATT: As far as you can get, yeah.
LAURA: Wow. I'm going to stand on that log so I'm
out of the swamp.
MATT and LAURA: (singing) Log! It's big, it's
heavy, it's wood!
MATT: (singing) You're not meant to stand on this.
It's really obnoxious, yeah! We'll say right
there. You're on it.
LIAM: I'm on a log.
LAURA: Wait. I can't get it quite that far, can I?
Hold on. Let me check one last thing before I
definitely do that.
MATT: You can get almost to it with a 60-foot
range.
LAURA: Okay. I'll put it as close as I can to it.
MATT: Right there is the closest you can get.
LAURA: Yeah. That's my bonus action.
MATT: Correct.
LAURA: For my action, I'm going to wait until it's
close enough, and then I'm going to hit it.
MATT: Okay, so you're holding?
LAURA: I'm holding my actual action to attack it.
MATT: Can you use an action to hit with it? I
think it's a bonus action.
LAURA: No, it's a bonus action.
MATT: Sorry.
LAURA: That's dumb. That was dumb on my part.
MARISHA: From my perspective, it looks like the
gator is super stoked about having this lollipop.
MATT: This is his lucky day. This lollipop
apparates out of the swamp water and is now
hovering there.
LAURA: I'm going to hold Sacred Flame to cast on
him.
MATT: You got it. Ending Jester's turn, that
brings us to Yasha. Full run. What's your speed?
ASHLEY: 40 feet.
MATT: 40 feet. You're right up next to Beau.
TRAVIS: Fucking linebacker 40-yard dash.
MARISHA: (heavy quick footsteps)
ASHLEY: I can't walk in, right?
MATT: No, that's double dash, because you guys all
stayed back while Jester ran in. You're all barely
getting caught up to her at this point. Caleb,
you're up.
LIAM: Oh, I am? Okay. I am going to stick a root
of licorice in my mouth like a hayseed like I'm
Fjord and cast Haste on Nott. Read this because
your armor class is up, you have an extra action
per round, you have advantage on dexterity saves.
I will do my full movement forward. 30 feet.
MATT: That's about as far as you get right there.
We'll say, comparatively. Just knock them around!
TALIESIN: These happen to be made of metal.
ASHLEY: Yeah, you get more out of it.
MATT: It chips the paint better.
Nott, you're up.
SAM: Wow, I'm feeling so fast.
LAURA: Ooh, you could double dash!
SAM: I will dash. You know, to catch up to them, I
guess.
MATT: With your regular movement speed, you'll get
up to where Caleb is. Sorry, where Molly is.
SAM: I bonus action dash.
MATT: Bonus action dash will get you up to where,
up to the edge and about, we'll say right there.
SAM: Then I get two attacks. Two actions now,
right?
LIAM: You have an extra action. Yeah.
SAM: Whoa. That's still out of range of hand
crossbow.
TALIESIN: Is it?
SAM: Well, no it's not. It's that I have to fire
at disadvantage.
MATT: Yeah. Up to you.
SAM: All right. Sure. I'll do that, I guess.
LIAM: You can use the extra action to go closer as
well.
SAM: That's true.
LIAM: Or extra attack.
SAM: Okay. I'll use one action to get closer
still. Okay.
MATT: It's swampy. (marshy sloshing)
SAM: I'll test the air and do a lob shot.
MATT: Go for it, arcing it over. With
disadvantage.
SAM: Okay. Ooh. Two plus something, so it's nine.
MATT: No. It goes wide. Sticks into one of the
nearby swamp trees over here. That ends your turn.
LAURA: That was really close, though!
SAM: I'm sorry, Caleb! I failed you.
LAURA: He's within range of my radiant blast now, so I
can attack him.
MATT: You can, so do that as you release the
bolt.
LAURA: Okay. The Sacred Flame is what I meant to
say. Dexterity of 15.
MATT: That's a failure with a two. Roll damage.
LAURA: Oh wait. Do I get more because I'm level
five now? "Spell damage increases when you
"reach--" Oh 2d8, yes. Oh, good. Three whole
damage, woo.
MATT: All right. Three.
LIAM: I love this cleric.
ASHLEY: That's still something.
LIAM: That's fucking dumb.
SAM: (mockingly) I can't do anything. I suck.
LAURA: I can mend the shit out of some wheels,
though, bitches.
MATT: It approaches--
LAURA: No!
MATT: --the bird creature. It doesn't have its
action to strike it, unfortunately, because it had
to get the extra movement. Coming out of the way
here, you see--
(gasping)
MATT: Because at this point, you realize, the one
that was approaching it was approaching it from
the opposite direction that Beau saw the other
thing move.
LAURA: Yeah, I was wondering why it was coming
from the other direction.
MATT: That's the one that Beau must have seen. It
begins to emerge from the brush underneath.
There's this low growl. You hear the growling,
sucking sound as it approaches.
LAURA: No!
MATT: It's going to make a strike.
ASHLEY: Oh no. Don't die.
LAURA: Oh no! What if it's a trap?
MATT: Natural one. That's fucking lucky. As it
attempts to bite out towards it, the small bird
creature scrambles backward and manages to beat
its jaw out of the way. It is going to attempt to
swing around and swing its tail in its direction.
A two? Are you fucking serious?
TALIESIN: Yeah! Sorry.
LIAM: Screw you, Snitch.
TRAVIS: The dice can hear you.
MATT: Okay. Apparently. So yeah.
TRAVIS: He's so pissed.
MATT: Although, technically, the creature is
restrained, so it does have advantage on its
attacks. Yeah, attack rolls against it have
advantage, because it's restrained. So the first
attack missed, the bite. The tail does hit. The
jaws, it missed with a one and a two on the first
strike. The second one it swings with its tail--
Hey.
TRAVIS: I love it.
MATT: I'm going by the rules. It's restrained. The
second one, the tail, does hit. Crack! This is
going to be 19 points of bludgeoning damage. As
the tail cracks across the scrambling bird, you
watch as it goes limp and is currently
unconscious, its tiny form now stuck in the bog
and unmoving.
LAURA: We should have got to it sooner!
MARISHA: This is so prehistoric!
TRAVIS: Now we're in this for a dying bird?
MATT: Now it's Fjord's turn.
TRAVIS: Are we staying in this?
LAURA: Hey, man. I'm up here. I don't know.
TRAVIS: All right. Fine. I'll use my speed to
approach 15 feet. Half of 30.
MATT: Your speed will get you about there. You and
Caleb are about the same space.
TRAVIS: I'll use Eldritch Blast at 120 feet for
the gator. The farthest north.
MATT: Roll the attacks.
TRAVIS: Two beams. That's a fat one plus four.
That's five points of damage.
MATT: Five points.
TRAVIS: And the second beam 12 points of damage.
MATT: Did you roll for the attacks on each of
those?
TRAVIS: I did not. I have never played this game
before, apparently. Thank you guys for your
patience. That is a nine.
MATT: Nine misses.
TRAVIS: And that's a 12.
MATT: 12 misses. Both go wide off into space. No
damage to that croc. However, as it slams into the
wood nearby and the ground, it turns in your
direction, noticing now the arriving brigade.
TRAVIS: I'll use my bonus action to cast--
MARISHA: We're the brigade.
TRAVIS: Nope, that's it. That's my turn.
MATT: Top of the round now. Molly and Beau.
MARISHA: Are we doing this? Birds die this way all
the time.
LAURA: It's not a bird!
MARISHA: What? It's feathery!
LAURA: No, it looked like a person, you guys!
TRAVIS: But look. I mean, two big-ass, right at
the dinner table, we're real far away. Going to
take a hot minute for us to get there. The bell's
been rung.
MARISHA: What if it's Febron?
TALIESIN: I'm at least going to get up to-- What's
a basic movement?
MATT: We'll say for the purposes of this, at
movement, because the space is not right here, so
I'm going to get you on the edge of the map for
your movement.
TALIESIN: Am I within 60 feet of either of these?
MATT: Sure, you are.
TALIESIN: Are we doing this? Well, we're doing
this. I'm going to try and cast Enthrall on the
closest gator.
MATT: The closest gator? Okay then. Let me pull it
up here. That's a--
TALIESIN: Wisdom save?
MATT: Enthrall. That's probably a bard spell.
Enthrall. All right. You weave a
distracting string of words (mumbles).
TRAVIS: Enthrall.
MATT: It has advantage on the save because you
guys have attacked it.
TALIESIN: I haven't attacked that one yet. Oh,
you're right. Yes, of course.
TRAVIS: What if it's not successful attacks?
MATT: That's a two plus zero. That is an eight
plus zero.
TALIESIN: I don't think so.
MATT: I don't think it makes it, actually. You're
really lucky.
TALIESIN: Is eight my save on wisdom?
MATT: What's your spell DC? It should say. Is it
charisma-based?
TALIESIN: It says wisdom, but I don't know.
MATT: It's a wisdom save, but is the ability
your racial ability?
TALIESIN: No, yeah it's a racial ability.
MATT: Yeah, then it's charisma-based, because all
of them are, so it's DC ten. It still succeeds,
actually. It rolled really poorly. So the creature
has disadvantage to perceive any creatures other
than you until the spell ends.
SAM: It has disadvantage to perceive?
TALIESIN: Yep. It ain't going to eat. It means
it's going to pay attention to me and only me.
LAURA: That's wonderful. Oh no.
TALIESIN: I know. I'm sitting. I'm spinning my
sword and talking in--
LAURA: In gator.
TALIESIN: (Infernal voice)
MATT: It seems to have paid attention. I mean, it
senses all of your presence, but it's focused on
you. If any of you are trying to get around
stealthily, it's going to have a hard time
noticing you. That ends your turn?
TALIESIN: Yep.
MATT: All righty. Beau?
MARISHA: Am I able to have enough movement to get
on this stumpy stump?
MATT: You can get up to here, I'd say, if you move
at the same pace. That's your movement. You have
your action and your bonus still.
MARISHA: I don't think I'm-- I'm not within 60
feet of any of them, am I? No, I guess I am to
throw a thing. Can I use my bonus to move a little
bit further onto the top of this tree?
MATT: If you want to spend a ki point to do your
step of the wind.
MARISHA: My step of the wind? I can't get within
range of them with my step of the wind though, right?
MATT: Almost.
MARISHA: Fuck. God damn it.
MATT: Although if you aren't moving towards that
tree and you move there instead--
MARISHA: If I move straight?
MATT: No, that's still the same. Yeah, just out of
range.
LIAM: Get them ninja stars out.
MARISHA: Yeah. I'm going to ninja star for my main
attack and if I can-- I don't know if I can-- I
can't move on my bonus, can I?
MATT: You can if you spend a ki point.
MARISHA: Only if I move a ki point. Right. Nah,
fuck it. Ninja star.
MATT: All right. Go for it. You get two at the
creature.
MARISHA: Okay. That's a 20 for the first one.
MATT: 20 hits.
MARISHA: Ooh, and a natural 19 for the second one.
MATT: Both hit. Roll damage on each.
MARISHA: These are 1d4s, right?
LIAM: They're darts. I think they're homebrewed
darts.
MARISHA: Yeah, I think it's 1d4. For the first
one, that's seven. For the second one, that's
five. Gambit style!
TRAVIS: Total armpit throw.
MATT: As you throw them both, they (whoosh whoosh)
and it's like (low growl) and it opens its jaws.
MARISHA: I point at Percy and I go, "He did it!"
Oh, I called him Percy! I think that's the first
time I've done that!
LIAM: I think that's the first time any of us have
ever done that.
MARISHA: I point at Molly. He did it.
LIAM: (as Grog) He did it!
MARISHA: Aw! I miss Percy.
LIAM: (sings) Light the corner of my mind.
MATT: That end your guys' turns. Jester, you're
up.
LAURA: Okay. Oh, god! Can I climb up on this tree
right in front of me?
MATT: Right here?
LAURA: For my move, yeah.
MATT: Sure. Make an athletics check.
TALIESIN: Oh boy. Don't fall.
LAURA: I was so afraid it was going to be a one.
16.
MATT: Sure, let me put you up there in the tree.
LAURA: Okay, good! I'm going to cast
Blindness/Deafness at level three on both of the--
MATT: At level three, a different target.
MARISHA: That's cool!
MATT: That's pretty great. What's the wisdom save
on that?
SAM: Blind or deaf?
LAURA: It's both.
LIAM: What's that spell do?
LAURA: Blindness/Deafness.
MATT: Wisdom save?
LAURA: It's a con save.
MATT: Con save. All right.
LAURA: Either blinded or deafened.
MATT: A 19 on that one.
LAURA: Okay, shit.
MATT: He succeeds. That's a 14 on the other.
That one, however, is blinded.
LAURA: Yeah, he's blind.
MATT: You watch as, all of a sudden, the eyes
darken and it begins to (snarls), flailing about,
unable to actually make a bead on where any of you
are at the moment.
LAURA: He's got a disadvantage on his attack
rolls? Is that what it is?
MATT: Yep, and advantage on attack rolls against
it.
LAURA: That's good. Okay. Then I'm going to use
my spiritual weapon to come up behind the other
gator and smack him on the back!
MATT: Boop! Go for it.
LAURA: Okay. Someday, I'm going to know what I'm
doing.
MATT: That's not concentration, correct?
LAURA: No. Spiritual Weapon is just up.
MATT: Just lasts for a minute?
LAURA: Oh, Blindness/Deafness?
MATT: Yes.
LAURA: Blindness/Deafness is not concentration.
Yeah, it's just a minute.
TALIESIN: Just a minute of pain.
MATT: At the end of each of its turns, it can make
a constitution saving throw. Good to know.
LAURA: Plus seven to hit. That's 23.
MATT: That hits! Roll damage.
LAURA: Okie-dokie. That is eight damage.
MATT: Nice. Your lollipop slams into the back of
that distant alligator, but it's still right there
with the unconscious creature in front of it,
starting to figure out where to keep its focus. It
seems hungry, but it's also being assaulted. That
ends Jester's turn. Yasha, you're up.
ASHLEY: Okay. How close can I get to the--
MATT: Movement will get you up to there.
ASHLEY: Oh shit. Okay. Well, I would like to rage.
Get that fired up.
MATT: Okay. Your vision goes faintly dark red as
you begin to focus your frustration towards these
creatures. What do you do?
ASHLEY: I mean, I can't move anymore, so--
MATT: You can use your action to move, if you want
to.
ASHLEY: Oh, yeah. Yes.
MATT: At least it'll get you into the fray. That's
as close as you can get there.
ASHLEY: All right. That's my turn.
MATT: That ends your turn. Caleb, you're up.
LIAM: I think that I see one of the giant gators
is getting close to Nott and also Yasha, so I'm
going to tug really hard on the Glove of Blasting
and revolve around my wrist three times and use
Scorching Ray.
MATT: Scorching Ray. Go for it. Roll three attacks
on it, right?
LIAM: Edubation. Say again?
MATT: How many rays is it? Three rays?
LIAM: Three attacks, advantage against the target,
correct?
MATT: Correct.
LIAM: First one is a 17.
MATT: That hits.
LIAM: Okay. Second one is a natural 20.
MATT: Nice.
LIAM: Third one is a 17. So they all hit.
MATT: They all hit. Second set of rolls is
doubled.
LIAM: Ja. Here we go. Dang it! Total of 21 fire
damage.
MATT: Nice! Not bad at all. Looking up at the
distance, you tug on the glove and release as
these three bolts arc out and slam into the rather
broad side of this reptilian creature, this large
crocodile that's now--
LAURA: Was that the one that is--
MATT: Blinded.
LAURA: Okay.
LIAM: Ja. Then I will keep wading through the
shit, try to get a little bit closer.
MATT: Okay. With that, you get to about there.
LIAM: And say, "Hey! Fjord, isn't this fun?" And
that's it.
MATT: Ending Caleb's turn. Nott, you're up.
SAM: Because that gator is blind, does that mean
it counts as sneak attack?
MATT: Yep.
SAM: Okay. Then I will bolt, bolt, bolt.
MATT: Go for it.
SAM: Three attacks. They all hit. 19, 15, 13, plus
things
LIAM: But what if you get a natural 20? Roll
again, in case you get 20's.
SAM: I'll roll again. Sure.
LAURA: Ooh, he did!
LIAM: We got a natural 20.
SAM: One of them is a natural 20.
MATT: You got to roll them in order, though,
because you don't know if the one that got sneak
attack is. You have to declare that when it
happens.
SAM: They all get sneak attack.
MATT: Well, you only get sneak attack once per
round.
SAM: Oh, okay. Got it. Well, it was the second
one.
MATT: Second one got crit.
SAM: Yes.
MATT: Right. So the first one would've been sneak
attack.
SAM: Okay.
MATT: First strike--
SAM: --is 17 plus four, 21. Plus I'll use Fury of
the Small, making it 26.
MARISHA: How often do you get to add that?
SAM: Just once a day. Then second does not get
sneak attack? Even though it's at disadvantage.
MATT: Sneak attack, you only get once per turn.
Not per round, per turn. So you can still get it
on a reaction.
SAM: Six, but that's doubled?
MATT: Whatever you rolled on the dice, doubled.
SAM: Four, so eight. Eight for that one.
MATT: Eight points of damage.
SAM: Then one more. That's ten.
MATT: Ten points of damage. This poor gator turned
around, went blind, got shot multiple times,
blasted with fiery beams.
SAM: It still can't stop thinking about Mollymauk,
though.
MATT: No, it's just so focused on him. That ends
your turn?
SAM: I'm going to move behind that rock over
there. (yelping) That's it.
MATT: That ends your turn. It is now the crocs'
turns. (counts movement) It actually climbs up the
rock after you, (stomping) and then goes and takes
a swipe down at you.
LIAM: +2 on your AC.
SAM: Sure.
MATT: That is 23 to hit.
SAM: Damn it. Sure.
MATT: With that, 3d10 plus five.
TRAVIS: 3d10 plus five?
MATT: Yeah. It's a large set of jaws.
SAM: I'm going to be using Uncanny Dodge for the
first time.
MATT: 21 points of piercing damage, halved. You
take ten points of piercing damage, but you are
grappled as the giant jaws slam into you and hold
you in place. You're unable to escape at that point.
SAM: (yelping) We're both reptiles, man! Come on!
Be cool!
LAURA: Are goblins reptiles?
SAM: I don't know. Maybe he's dumb.
MARISHA: See, now I'm getting Little Mermaid
vibes, though, from the gator. (singing) Up where
they walk, up where they run, up where they stay
all day in the sun.
MATT: It's going to take a swing with its tail
towards you as it's flailing about, hearing noise
in that direction. It has disadvantage against
you. That's 22 and 12. That misses in the first
attack as its tail goes wide. It turns around and
snaps its jaws towards the tree and scrapes off
the side of the tree and swings in your direction,
as it attempts to bite towards you. That's going
to be a 14. What's your armor class?
ASHLEY: Just hits.
MATT: 14's your armor class? That's right. You
have the jaws slam onto you. You suffer 18 points
of piercing damage, but because you're raging,
that's reduced to nine. You get nine points of
piercing damage, but you are grappled and
restrained currently, as you are now trapped in
its jaws. You watch as Nott's hands are dangling
out of its toothy jaws, it's swinging her in the
air. Yasha is lifted up off her feet and is
currently trying to pry the jaws open off of her
body, but is unable to do so. Death saving throw
for the creature. That's a failure. Fjord, you're up.
TRAVIS: Nott's all caught up. I say: Crap. Fire.
And two more bursts of Eldritch Blast to the gator
holding Nott.
MATT: Holding Nott? Go for it.
TRAVIS: That'll hit. That's 23.
MATT: That'll do.
TRAVIS: And the second one. That'll hit, too.
That's a natural 17.
MATT: You got it.
TRAVIS: Okay, great. 12 points of damage on the
first one, and six points of damage on the second
one, so 18 total.
MATT: Nice. As you release the two bolts, they manage
to peek around the tree, see it grasping Nott in
its jaws and swinging her back and forth. One hits
the bottom of the jaw, and the other hits its
side. You see this little splatter of dark crimson
alligator blood from the two impacts, but it's
still holding taut to this tiny little morsel it
has in its jaws.
TRAVIS: I'll use my pathetic speed to try and match
Caleb.
MATT: All right. Want to move Caleb up for me,
Beau? Somebody?
MARISHA: Caleb, or Fjord?
MATT: I'm sorry. Meant to say Fjord to Caleb.
TRAVIS: Yeah, this is so much fun. I'm glad we are
helping this random-ass penguin.
MATT: At least you guys have range. That brings us to the
top again. Molly and Beau.
TALIESIN: You want to go first?
MARISHA: Sure.
TALIESIN: Thank you.
MARISHA: Can I get to this guy who's got Nott?
MATT: Yeah.
MARISHA: Okay. I'm going to parkour off.
MATT: That is a 16 on the saving throw for the
blind crocodile, so it does resist the blindness.
Its vision comes back. However, it fucked it up for a
round. Beau.
MARISHA: I'm going to do a parkour off of the rock
and come down and try and get it right in its
mouth to try and get it to spit out Nott. So the
first attack. That's good. That's a 21.
MATT: 21 hits.
MARISHA: That's better. That's 22.
MATT: That hits. With two strikes with the staff.
MARISHA: Spit it out! Both of those are the same,
which is seven.
MATT: Seven damage each? So 14? Cool. It's 14
points of damage with the two strikes?
MARISHA: Uh-huh.
MATT: Slamming into the side of its heavy, thick,
scaled hide. It's hurting, but it's definitely a
resistant beast.
MARISHA: I'm going to spend a ki point now to do
two more, flurry of blows.
MATT: You pull your staff behind and then you go
to a punch and a dropkick.
MARISHA: That's an 18, and they just keep getting
better.
MATT: Way to go. That hits.
MARISHA: And that one's not great. That's worse.
That's a 12.
MATT: 12 misses, unfortunately, but you do get
one punch off. After slamming it twice, you go for
the softer part and whack!
MARISHA: You know what? I rolled the wrong damage
die for those first two, but that's my fault. Six
damage. I rolled d6s instead of d8s.
MATT: Oh, gotcha, but there you go.
MARISHA: That gator got lucky.
LAURA: Why don't you take off the damage you did
and reroll as eights?
TRAVIS: Because that's how the cookie crumbles.
MATT: Okay. Moving on. That's fine. It's okay.
It's still a fair amount of damage. Molly, what
are you doing?
TALIESIN: With my running speed, how close can I
get and still have an action?
MATT: That's it.
TALIESIN: That's as far as I can get without an
action?
MATT: Unfortunately, you guys are running through
a swamp behind who engaged it, so it's an
unfortunate circumstance.
TALIESIN: At the very least, then, I'm going to--
MATT: Fortune favors the bold in this case.
TALIESIN: Yep. Since I still have some distance,
I'm going to try some Vicious Mockery to see if
that does anything. The one--
TRAVIS: Please Schwarzenegger it with, "You're
luggage."
TALIESIN: I'm curious what that's going to sound
like. I'll hit the Vicious Mockery on the one that
currently has Nott, just because--
MATT: Sure. That is a natural 19.
TALIESIN: Yeah, no. (Infernal coughing)
MATT: A swamp bug goes into your throat as you're
trying speak it, and you have to cough it out for
a second. That finishes Molly's run. Jester,
you're up.
LAURA: Okay. I'm going to Invoke Duplicity as my
action, and I'm going to pop my little person down
right behind the other side of the gator that
Yasha's fighting, yes. Then for my bonus action,
I'm going to cast Healing Word on the little bird
creature.
MATT: Okay. Roll to heal on that one. It's within
range.
LAURA: That's six.
MATT: Six points of healing. You watch as
suddenly, its yellow eye flickers and looks around
for a second and it begins to push against the
slickness.
LAURA: My invoked Jester turns around and thumbs
ups to it.
MATT: It looks at it. (bird croaking) It begins to
try and pull its way back out of the bog. It's
getting stuck and sliding in, but it's trying to
pull itself backward. That's your turn, Jester.
LAURA: That's all I can do.
MATT: Yasha, you're up.
ASHLEY: Okay, so I'm in the jaws.
MATT: In its jaws. So you are restrained. You can
still attack it, but you're at disadvantage on all
your attacks.
ASHLEY: Okay. I will try to attack. Divine fury,
and if I do reckless, does that mean--
MATT: If you reckless, it'll become regular
attacks.
ASHLEY: Okay. I'll do that.
MATT: All right. Make your two strikes. First one
with divine fury as you swing down towards the top
of its jaws with your blade.
ASHLEY: That's a natural one.
MATT: As you go to swing, the jaws tense against
you and (groans) it hurts and all your muscles tense
from the pain, but you stay focused going for your
second strike.
ASHLEY: Okay. Sorry, hold on. Oh wait, no, I'm
doing this one. 17.
MATT: 17 does hit, roll damage. This still gets
divine fury though, because it's the first strike
that you hit with.
ASHLEY: It's the first strike, okay.
SAM: Man, this is exciting.
ASHLEY: Okay, so eight--
SAM: That's not enough.
TALIESIN: (Infernal voice) Crocodile Dundee.
ASHLEY: 18.
MATT: 18 points of damage. How do you want to do
this?
(cheering)
MATT: You guys have been plugging everything into
this one croc since the beginning of the battle.
ASHLEY: Am I actually able to-- If I have my hand
on his jaws, just pull them apart.
MATT: Yeah, you can because you're inside of it.
ASHLEY: Open the jaw, just stand.
MATT: You pull yourself, you pull the jaws open
and step out of it, getting your feet on the
ground as you yank apart. You put your leg up into
it and (snapping). You feel the jaw pop. It falls
back for a moment, its jaw now limp and its tongue
lolling out to one side. You have your blade and
you do the finishing blow.
ASHLEY: Okay.
MATT: Oh, I mean describe to me the finishing
blow.
ASHLEY: Oh, finishing blow.
MATT: Breaking its jaw isn't going to kill it. So
how do you kill it?
ASHLEY: Okay. I'll try to chop off the head as
much as I can.
MATT: Okay. After breaking the jaw you step out,
pull the blade from behind you and with a wide swipe,
like an anti-cavalry blow, you cut through the
side of its throat and neck. It doesn't get all
the way through, but it cuts enough through the
spine where it falls to the ground. This long,
heavy, limp piece of luggage. We'll leave that
there for its size, though. You going to stay
where you are? You want to move? Because you still
have movement, you've been released from its jaws.
ASHLEY: Yeah, can I move towards the back of the
other one? In front of Jester; in between the croc
and Jester.
MATT: That's as far as you can get. Well, you can
get there, actually.
ASHLEY: Perfect. Yeah, perfect.
MATT: Okay. That ends your turn. Yasha's finished.
Caleb, you're up.
LIAM: Ja, it seems like I'm-- can I get within
30 feet of it? No, correct? I would think probably not.
MATT: Moving your speed will get you right up to
the edge there, so it's just out of 30 feet.
LIAM: Just out of 30 feet.
MATT: Sorry.
LIAM: I am going to cast Magic Missile at level
three because he's got my little friend.
MATT: That's five missiles?
LIAM: That is five missiles total. Here we go.
MATT: Trudging through the swamp, cast the spell,
and then release. The five missiles all impacting
at once.
MARISHA: Well, wow.
LAURA: Nice, nice.
TRAVIS: Natural 20 on that.
MARISHA: Yeah.
MATT: Broken clock.
LIAM: Total of 18, so (firing noises).
MATT: Along its side of it, it's still holding
Nott in its mouth, and Nott's muffled screaming
from inside of its jaws as it swings her back and
forth. It seems singularly focused on destroying
whatever it has its mouth on. It's a beast. That
finishes your turn, Caleb?
LIAM: (yelling) Disappointed!
MATT: Nott, it's your turn.
LAURA: Oh gosh, Nott.
SAM: I use my first action to try and resist the
grapple and escape.
MATT: I need you to contest it. It's an escape DC
of 16; it's athletics or acrobatics, your choice.
SAM: (stuttering)
LAURA: Acrobatics.
SAM: Yes, whatever's-- yes, Acrobatics.
MATT: Make the check.
SAM: Ooh, 18.
MATT: 18 is enough. You manage to just squeeze out
of its jaws and land back on the ground where you
are, slipping out a brief moment of its opening
and get there. There's blood streaked down, you
can feel the pain from the teeth that have been
digging into your body.
SAM: Is it engaged with Beau? Can I get a sneak
attack on it?
MATT: It would, yeah.
SAM: Okay, great. I will shoot it in the face. Ooh,
not great. 12.
MATT: 12 misses. You pull out, and from being
shaken around you're a bit dizzy and the pain
swelters in your body, and as you go to fire it
ricochets off of its hide.
LIAM: Is he flanked with Yasha?
MATT: Right now?
LAURA: Oh.
SAM: What's that mean?
LIAM: Advantage.
MATT: Technically, yes actually.
LIAM: Roll again.
SAM: Cool.
TALIESIN: Good man.
SAM: 17.
MATT: 17 does hit, roll damage.
SAM: Oh wow. Okay, that's a hit. Ooh, they're all
bad. 12.
MATT: 12 points of damage, sneak attack. The first
strike hits underneath the throat, slips into a
piece of its already open, cracked, heavy hide and
it-- (growls).
SAM: If that was one side of the throat, I'll go
for the other side. Oh, terrible, 11.
LAURA: But you still get advantage because you
flanked!
SAM: Oh, still advantage, or that's just once a
turn?
MATT: It's advantage on every strike.
SAM: Oh, wow, okay. That hits! That's an 18.
MATT: That's better, roll damage for that one.
This rollercoaster, the emotions.
LIAM: It's like the Simpsons Frogurt scene.
MATT: I know.
SAM: Five more points of damage.
MATT: Five points of damage.
MARISHA: Question, would this trigger my reaction
for Sentinel?
MATT: No, because it's not attacking anything
that's outside of you.
MARISHA: Okay.
SAM: But it might in a second, because I'm going
to run behind that tree.
MARISHA: Okay, okay! That's good to know. Oh, this
is Nott's turn.
MATT: Correct.
MARISHA: Sorry.
MATT: No worries.
SAM: I'm going to get away. Get away as fast and
as far as I can.
MATT: Away from over here?
SAM: Sure. Any way you think it won't see me.
MATT: That's as far as you can get right there. It
does try and snatch its jaws towards you in the
process. That's a natural 20.
LAURA: No!
SAM: That hits.
TALIESIN: God damn it.
TRAVIS: Roll it and be proud. Ooh!
MATT: That's an eight, nine, and a five.
SAM: I will use my--
LAURA: Oh, you get Uncanny Dodge again?
MATT: 23 plus five. 28 points of piercing damage.
SAM: Wait, can I use Uncanny Dodge again because
it's gone around?
MATT: You can use it once per round, yeah.
SAM: Yeah, uncanny dodge to make it 14.
MATT: 14 points of piercing damage, however, you
are grappled in its jaws.
SAM: (yelling) Again? I just got out!
MATT: I know, but as you try and break away--
We're talking like Deep Blue Sea, Samuel L.
Jackson. As you run away the jaws grab and pull
you back and you're being held and shaken again.
LAURA: No!
MARISHA: Now do I get that opportunity attack?
MATT: Now you do, yes.
LIAM: Oh, just when I think I'm out, they pull me
back in.
MATT: As it strikes out and grapples Nott in the
jaws, you do manage to get one swing at it.
MARISHA: I whack it right in the nose, because
that's what I was taught with bears. I go: No!
SAM and LAURA: Sharks, and bears.
MATT: A lot of sharks in Kamordah, it's a thing.
MARISHA: They're all the same, in the nose.
Natural 20!
MATT: Oh, shit! Roll some damage on that.
MARISHA: Be high! Okay! 12 damage?
LIAM: Sure.
MATT: 12 points of damage, all right. Crack! You
hit it right across the snout, and upon the impact
its eyes go dazed for a second but it continues to
chew. It's still standing. That finishes Nott's
turn? All right. The one standing croc is going to
drop Nott out of its jaws--
SAM: Oh, that's nice of him.
MATT: And attempt to bite again.
TALIESIN: Blood Curse of the Eyeless, amplified.
MATT: Curse of the Eyeless amplified. Actually
before it bites, it's going to swing with its
tail. It's going to spin around and attempt to
slam you with its tail. That's disadvantage on
that strike. That's cocked. Cocked again.
Disadvantage. Even with disadvantage that's a 20.
SAM: Yeah, that hits.
MATT: The tail hits you. That's 2d8.
TRAVIS: No, no, no. Shame on you DM. No more.
LIAM: This one, not this one.
MATT: That's 18 points of bludgeoning damage.
LAURA: Oh no!
SAM: Out.
MATT You are knocked prone and it's going to try
and bite you. That's what it was doing on its turn.
TALIESIN: Disadvantage.
MATT: I know. But it has advantage on a prone
creature.
LAURA: So it's even.
TRAVIS: Regular roll.
ALL: (to the tune of "Breaking the Law") Regular
roll, regular roll.
MATT: That's a 17 to hit, what's your armor
class?
SAM: It's 18 now.
LIAM: Yes!
SAM: Because of the Haste, but I don't know, I'm
dead. Do I have Haste if I'm unconscious?
LAURA: But he's the one that cast--
LIAM: But does an unmoving body move?
MATT: I'm going to make a quick call here.
SAM: You're calling someone?
MATT: No. I'm calling Jeremy Crawford to
confirmation.
MARISHA: He's going to phone a friend, but in the
case the friend is Nathan Stewart. "Hey, Chris Perkins?"
LIAM: (Regis Philbin imitation) Would you like to
phone a WotC friend?
TALIESIN: If you were just prone, he would still
have it, so if the spell is still active.
LIAM: Matthew Mercer. How do you want to do this?
SAM: The spell is active because it makes you
faster.
MATT: I know, it's still active by rules as
written, I guess.
LIAM: Maybe she's vibrating on the ground. Like
when a pager goes off.
MATT: Yeah, spells end when they say they end.
SAM: This feels wrong. Do it, just do it, I'll
take it.
MATT: You don't want to. You don't want to take
it. Well hold on.
TRAVIS: He's looking at the Great Wall. He rarely
references the Great Wall.
MATT: Rarely references the Great Wall? No, that's
a 17 still, so with the Haste bonus, that would
still miss yeah. So here's what happens. As you
fall unconscious--
SAM: I don't feel right about this.
MATT: As you fall unconscious, your form is
blurring slightly from the impact, and as you
tumble, and it goes to strike and bite you, you're
tumbling backward at such a speed, still under the
effect of the spell carrying you, that you fall
out of grasp of its jaws as you spin and spill out
of its mouth as the teeth clamp. Plummeting to the
ground. Not taking a critical hit and immediately
failing two death saving throws.
LIAM: Good narration DM. Good narration.
SAM: I even die fast.
TALIESIN: Yeah this is low level, there wouldn't
really be much bringing you back.
That'd be the end of it.
LAURA: I have Revivify.
MATT: Do you have any 300 gold diamonds?
LAURA: I have lots of rings, do any of them have
diamonds in them?
MATT: Not worth 300 gold.
LAURA: How dare you!
MATT: I'm just saying, you got to buy your spell
components.
LAURA: I thought if I had my symbol of the
Traveler!
MATT: No.
LAURA: I've never done this before.
MATT: Laura. It's okay. Components that cost
money, you have to purchase,
like his diamond and his incense.
LIAM: Ja, hallo.
LAURA: Do you have a diamond that's worth 300
gold?
LIAM: It's worth 100, which is what I need for my
spell, ja.
TALIESIN: Not three.
LAURA: Don't die anyone, don't die. I thought I
could bring you back. Why do I have that stupid
spell prepared if I can't even use it?
TRAVIS and MATT: That's a good question.
MARISHA: It's the chalice dilemma.
MATT: Yeah.
MARISHA: Hero's Feast with the chalices.
MATT: Well, that finishes the croc's turn. As the
Haste spell snatches Nott from the jaws of almost
imminent death, Fjord you're up.
TRAVIS: I fucking see Nott fucking ragdolling all
over the place. I'll use the rest of my speed to
get as close as I can.
MATT: That gets you up onto the battlefield
there.
TRAVIS: Does that put me within 30 feet of that
croc?
MATT: It puts you within 35 feet, it's just out of
30 foot range.
TRAVIS: I'm 35 feet away?
MATT: Yeah.
TRAVIS: Oh, fuck me.
LIAM: Ain't you got no long range?
MATT: Sometimes it doesn't help to lag.
TRAVIS: I just wanted to a little Witch Bolt. Two
more Eldritch Blasts going at it.
MATT: Go for it, roll for the attacks.
TRAVIS: That is a 16 to hit.
MATT: 16 hits.
TRAVIS: Oh great, I thought it missed. That's not
going to do it, that's 13.
MATT: 13 just misses.
TRAVIS: That's ten plus four for 14 points of
damage.
MATT: How do you want to do this?
(cheering)
LAURA: Look at you.
TRAVIS: I'll look at that nice piece of luggage
and I'll say: Nott today.
(groaning)
SAM: I just failed two death saves from that pun.
LAURA: He literally marked them off.
MATT: Both of the impacts of the Eldritch Blasts
hit it, it's still up on the rock after snatching
its jaw in the air and missing Nott as she tumbles
out of it, the head comes down and turns towards
you. As its jaws open, both-- up into the throat.
You watch as the back of its head bursts behind
it. Its eyes go dull before it slumps over the
rock and it slowly slides into the edge of the
swamp nearby.
SAM: You got the kill? You were barely in the
fight!
LAURA: No, he totally came! He's good, he's a
hero! Can I use my invoked Jester, my duplicate,
to run over to Nott? She can move 30 feet.
MATT: She can, yeah.
LAURA: It wouldn't be encumbered because--
MATT: She's an illusion. Correct. Here, in this
instance, the illusion would not, I don't think,
be affected by the rough terrain.
LAURA: Wonderful, I'm going to cast Cure Wounds on
you.
MATT: There you go.
LAURA: At, you know--
SAM: The lowest level possible.
LAURA: At second level. We're about to get a rest,
it seems stupid to-- oh, it's cocked. Five plus
four. No. It would be plus four, plus four? No,
it's 2d8 plus four.
MATT: Correct, at 2nd-level.
LAURA: Okay yeah, nine.
MATT: That heals you up there, you come to
consciousness, Nott.
SAM: That was scary, I should not have been this
close. Where were you? I was doing everything up there!
TRAVIS: Look, look, I'm up to my fucking knees in
this quagmire, all right? It's a slop dolly of
epic proportions!
SAM: A slop dolly?!
LAURA: Can I jump down and walk over to the little
bird creature?
TRAVIS: Fucking Kentucky knows what I'm talking
about.
SAM: What's a slop dolly?
TRAVIS: We're in it!
LAURA: You guys!
MATT: You guys take a moment, finish yelling at
each other. Jester has jumped down from the tree,
calls your attention. There, still struggling in
the marsh, you see the small, black feathered bird
creature. And we're going to take a break because
it's 9:14, so let's take a quick break. We'll pick
up right at that moment in a few moments. I'm
going to sit down because I can do that right now.
We'll be back here in just a moment, guys. We do
have our Wyrmwood giveaway for the evening. We
have, what is it, kalimantan ebony tabletop dice
tray. This is the pretty awesome dark wood with
the leather in it.
MARISHA: Oh yes.
MATT: This one is gorgeous. That one is going to
be there for one of our winners during the break.
For those of you who are in the US and Canada,
except for Quebec, you can enter this over the
break, by coming into the Twitch chat and entering
the word "Marsh." Only enter it once, more than
once and you'll be disqualified and we'll come
back with a winner as soon as we return. See you
guys in a minute.
MATT: And welcome back everybody. Before we get
back into the game, we have the winner of our
fantastic Wyrmwood giveaway from the break:
akpresto. Akpresto, congratulations, you won the
awesome, awesome-wood-full game dice tray from
Wyrmwood. We'll get that to you ASAP, thank you
for coming in and everybody else who jumped into
the chat.
MARISHA: It smells a little like tuna, and that's
not me, though.
MATT: That's disgusting.
LAURA: Ew!
TRAVIS: You can't burp and then try to blame the
smell on somebody else.
MARISHA: I'm telling you.
LAURA: That's really foul.
LIAM: Out of context quotes.
MATT: Guys!
SAM: Oh, sorry Matt, is there something you'd like
to discuss with the table?
MATT: Yeah!
LIAM: A purple worm erupts from the middle of the
floor--
MATT: Don't tempt me. You guys all take a moment,
tend to your exhaustion from plunging into this
swamp haphazardly, some of you taking quite a
beating in the process. Jester guides your
attention to this now struggling small bird
creature. It looks to be about the size of a an
adolescent child, maybe no more than-- well, let's
say a little younger than that, maybe like an
eight or nine year old. But instead of skin, it's
just black feathers. No wings really, the feathers
are too small among the arm to actually be
flight-ready. The lower half of its body is still
sunken and thick in the bog. It has, where its
face is, two bright yellow eyes, very crow,
raven-like eyes and a long black pointed beak. And
(scared bird croaking).
LAURA: Don't worry! I can help you.
MATT: (scared chirping)
LAURA: Give me your hands.
MATT: (chirping)
LAURA: Oh! I lift it up out.
MATT: Make a strength check
SAM: Arms. Out of sockets.
LIAM: Caleb is watching all this.
LAURA: 20.
MATT: 20. With just a few moments, though your
legs sink in a bit, you manage to pull, find
leverage, grab onto some of the heavy vines on the
side, and you manage to pull this creature out
from the bog, until eventually it gets its legs
free, and as it pulls its way up to the top, it
begins to shrug off the thick bog slop that was
keeping it stuck there in the center of the opening.
MARISHA: It is a bird person.
LAURA: Right?
MATT: (chirping)
LAURA: Can you understand us?
LAURA: Oh my gosh! Do you live around here?
MATT: (like Jester) "Do you live around here?"
(gasping)
ASHLEY: It's like a mockingjay.
LAURA: What is your name?
MATT: (chirping)
SAM: Maybe it was separated from its parents or
something?
LAURA: Maybe. Are you an adult or are you a kid?
MATT: (like Jester) "A kid."
LAURA: A kid.
ASHLEY: I love him!
LIAM: I could, it would take an hour, but I could
understand this one, if I set my mind to it.
ASHLEY: You could get a rest.
SAM: Where do you live?
MATT: (chirping) And points its still soggy,
feathered arm, to the east.
LAURA: Close by?
MATT: (chirping)
LAURA: How did you get here?
MATT: (chirping). Looks towards you, and starts
walking up towards you, pulls open your coat.
Starts rummaging through, pulls one of the
books--
LIAM: Oh! No. No, please. No, please, no.
MATT: (like Caleb) "Please no."
LIAM: I'm going to pull my coat shut.
LAURA: Maybe you should learn how to speak to him.
SAM: Maybe it wants some paper.
TALIESIN: Where's your book?
LAURA: Oh! Can you write?
LIAM: Or does he want to draw.
LAURA: I pull out my journal.
TALIESIN: I've got a theory.
MARISHA: Maybe he only repeats what we say.
MATT: Begins to write into the book, and shows it
to you. It says, "Thank you."
LAURA: Oh, you're welcome so much! How old are
you? What's your name?
MATT: It says "four," the number four. The name is
"Kiri."
LAURA and SAM: Kiri?
LAURA: Kiri, you're four years old?
MATT: (chirping)
LAURA: That's so wonderful.
TALIESIN: What were you doing here? What is this
place?
MATT: Begins writing out an extended statement in
the paper. Puts out to you and it says; "Family
"going west. Traveling. Escaping east mountains.
Skies go dark there. Father said the valley folk fighting."
LAURA: They are. There's a big fight going on.
ASHLEY: Where's your--
MARISHA: How far have you traveled? Do you
recognize people that look like her?
MATT: (chirping)
LAURA: Where is your family now?
MATT: (sad chirping)
LAURA: Oh no, no, no! Are your Momma & Dad okay?
No?
MATT: (chirping)
LAURA: You don't know where they went? How did you
get separated?
MATT: Begins writing another small essay, in the
book.
LAURA: We should keep an eye out. To make sure no
more of those things come out.
TRAVIS: I'll keep an eye out.
ASHLEY: Same.
MATT: Make a perception check. One of you. Take it
with advantage.
MARISHA: Matt seems adamant. That can't be good.
ASHLEY: We both roll, but--?
MATT: One of you is aiding the other. Unless you
want to make two separate rolls. It's up to you.
TRAVIS: Let's do two separate rolls.
MATT: All right. Go for it.
TRAVIS: 14.
ASHLEY: 16.
MATT: Okay. You guys are keeping an eye out in the
space around you.
TALIESIN: I'm going to peruse these ruins a little
bit, see what they are and what they look like.
MATT: Make an investigation check. (chirp)
Finishes writing and shows it over, it says,
"Swamp was to hide us. Swamp folk saw us. So we
ran to not be taken. I wasn't watching and the bog
"caught me. Family couldn't pull free. Couldn't
risk sisters or selves, so kept going."
LAURA: Oh no!
MATT: "Stuck here for a while. Not their fault.
Don't want them to die for my carelessness."
Closes the book (chirps).
LAURA: (sadly) We've got to get him to his family.
TALIESIN: Do you know where they are heading?
SAM: It's a him?
MATT: (chirps)
LAURA: Oh, I don't know. Are you a--
SAM: A boy bird, or a girl bird, or just a bird
bird?
TALIESIN: A word bird.
MATT: "Girl."
LAURA: Girl bird! Kiri! Oh no. How many sisters do
you have?
MATT: Puts up four fingers with long, exaggerated
feathered fingertips.
MARISHA: Would I recognize what species or race of
people?
MATT: You haven't encountered these people before.
LIAM: Empire kids wouldn't know?
MARISHA: Empire kids wouldn't know? The whole
studied thing?
MATT: You've heard of various different strange
races out there. Bird people may have crossed in a
story before but-- You've done a little bit of
study. Make a nature check for you, Caleb, since
you studied in this area, just general knowledge.
ASHLEY: I've never seen them before?
LIAM and MATT: Natural 20.
LIAM: Kenku.
MATT: Kenku, yes, you know. They're usually very
removed. Location-wise, they usually exist on the
far outskirts of the Empire if anywhere. They have
small family units that live on their own. There
isn't so much of a kenku culture they belong to.
They're small little groups. They look out for themselves.
LIAM: Like ravens, they are able to mimic many
sounds.
MATT: Correct. As part of their history, and you
rolled a natural 20 so you know quite a bit,
something in their lineage, there was a curse
involved. Something based around the time of their
creation, where their ability to converse was
taken from them.
LIAM: I mutter that to the group.
LAURA: (quietly) Oh man.
TRAVIS: Kiri, have you happened to see a safe
house, or a building or a structure around while
you were fleeing?
MATT: (chirping)
LAURA: Where did you see the swamp people that you
were talking about?
MATT: She points in a northeastern direction.
SAM: But your family went the other way? To the
west?
TRAVIS: The way we came from? We could always give
her a horse--
MARISHA: That's what I was thinking.
MATT: Writes on the page, spins it around, it says
"Nowhere to go. Can I come with you?"
LIAM: Are you able to handle yourself in a scrap?
Are you good with a weapon, or--
SAM: She's four.
LAURA: Well, you're how old?
SAM: I don't really know, but I'm twice her age at
least!
LAURA: She's got really good penmanship, so I
don't think she's four like human four. Most
four-year-olds can't write like that.
SAM: That's true.
TALIESIN: Where we're going is a bit dangerous, we
should warn you.
LIAM: To my question though, are you able to
handle yourself in a dangerous moment in any way?
MATT: Looks back at the bog, goes--
SAM: Oh!
LIAM: A monk.
TRAVIS: Fearsome.
ASHLEY: Maybe we can keep her in the cart or
something?
LAURA: Yeah. If she stays with us at least until
tomorrow, maybe I can send a message to your
family and let them know you are okay.
MATT: (like Jester) "I'm okay."
LAURA: Right.
MATT: (Chirping)
TRAVIS: I reach behind my belt and pull out a
dagger and twirl it in my fingers, and hand it
hilt towards Kiri. Careful, it's sharp.
MATT: (like Fjord) "It's sharp."
MARISHA: It's kind of creepy, man.
ASHLEY: Do you have any more pocket bacon? Are you
hungry?
SAM: Oh, I have a pouch of things this one might
like!
MARISHA: Oh yeah, you've got oats.
SAM: I have dried corn and oats and things. Would
you peck on these?
MATT: Holding the dagger, she goes forward and
starts pecking out of your hand.
SAM: Oh, okay. Ow. Ow!
LAURA: I have some pastries, too, if you like
sweets.
TALIESIN: Hey Caleb, you got a second?
MATT: The head turns to you as well. Takes it.
LIAM: Many seconds. What do you need?
TALIESIN: Take a look at this. Do these mean
anything to you? Just looking at the stone
structures that are here.
MATT: You rolled investigation?
TALIESIN: I rolled an eight. They are stone.
MATT: It looks like it's very old and has long
fallen over and has been absorbed mostly by the
swamp. It doesn't look like it was a large
structure. Like it might have been a small, brief
gatehouse off the path. Some sort of a watch post
that had--
LIAM: Since he brought me over, what do I make of
the same?
MATT: Make an investigation check.
LIAM: Yeah. That is a 25.
MATT: Looking through it and making out the layout
of it, it was definitely a post house for Berleben
when it was first made. The stones look well over
100 years old. They have long been reclaimed by
the roots and vines of the swamp. Nothing special
beyond that really. Just an abandoned post.
LIAM: Just looks like a bunch of old crap, to be
honest.
TALIESIN: That's disappointing. I kick it.
MARISHA: Let me hold this dagger for just a
moment.
MATT: Hard grip on it.
MARISHA: I'll give it back. I just want to test
something.
TRAVIS: It's okay, Kiri.
MARISHA: Okay, we're just going to test your
reflexes here.
LAURA: Are you going to throw--
MARISHA: No. A little sparring. Punch here, hit
here. Can you-- (punching sounds)
LAURA: I'm going to cast Cure Wounds on her before
she does this.
MATT: Okay.
MARISHA: I just want to see before we give a
dagger to a child.
LAURA: Eight.
MATT: Natural 20!
MARISHA: To attack my hand? Okay.
MATT: Yeah. You take two points of damage. You're
like, "Oh!" Not bad.
LAURA: A natural 20 got two points of damage?
MATT: Yeah.
MARISHA: I don't know if she needs a dagger. Here
you go, child.
LAURA: Whoa, whoa!
MARISHA: We're going to die first.
LAURA: Should we cut open these giant gators and
see what they have in their bellies?
TALIESIN: Let's see if we can cut them and keep
some of this leather. I bet it's worth a little
bit of money.
LAURA: I take my axe and hit it in the belly!
MATT: You begin to carve into the two crocodiles?
TALIESIN: Yeah, we'll check the guts.
MATT: Whoever is helming that, make a medicine
check to understand what parts of the body are
most delicate. To try and open it without--
TALIESIN: Choose your weapon.
LAURA: Ugh. Ten.
MATT: It'll take you the better part of the day to
carve off enough of the hide to really be useful
for trading. It's a long process, These are big
creatures. You begin to carve off some of its
hide. None of you are experienced tanners, so it's
a lot of trial and error and sections of it
tearing off prematurely. It's a very messy
process. Jester is like hand to elbow covered in blood.
TALIESIN: Is there anything fun in the guts?
MATT: Have you checked in its stomach? You find a
lot of bones, a lot of partially digested meat,
and a lot of black feathers.
ALL: (dismayed) Oh!
LIAM: Did Jester spend hours doing that?
MATT: A while, yeah.
LIAM: If she did, then Caleb would have spent one
hour to cast Comprehend Languages as a ritual
spell to talk to her, full on.
MARISHA: Can I take a short rest, then, to get my
ki points back?
MATT: Sure.
LAURA: Can I realize that this was-- Would I be
able to tell from my medicine history that this is
bird people?
MATT: Looks to be, yeah.
LAURA: Like, could you tell from the bones it's a
lot of bird people?
MATT: Looks a handful.
LAURA: Oh no!
MARISHA: That's this kid's parents.
SAM: Oh, Beau, come on--
ASHLEY: Probably the rest of the family, too.
MARISHA: The cousins.
ASHLEY: Might be the only one, she--
LIAM: I'm going to walk Kiri away from this for
the moment and say, after an hour has passed of me
doing this ritual spell: For the moment, I can
understand you as clearly as you can understand
me. Do you want to tell me anything about your
time in this swamp or what you want to do with
yourself, now that you are alone or how we can
best help you? Or anything you want to tell me.
MATT: "I don't know, I just want to get back to my
family."
ASHLEY: Insight check.
LIAM: Okay
ASHLEY: She killed them all.
LIAM: Well, in the meantime, while we are looking
for them, is there anything that we can do for you
or is there anything that you can tell me about
your last days here?
MATT: There is an interesting point here, let me
check something real fast here.
SAM: That they don't talk.
MATT: Yeah, this is going to be a point.
MARISHA: Yeah, like a Rorschach test.
LAURA: Can they talk to each other?
TALIESIN: Hey, you can get the note.
LIAM: I mean, their are hoots and whistles are
some form of language, aren't they?
MARISHA: Well, he said that they were cursed, they
lost their ability.
MATT: No, that's interesting. Interesting point.
After casting the spell, there is no language to
understand, it's only through mimicry. You managed
to get the jist of that initial statement, through
talking with it for a while, but the spell has no
effect.
LAURA: Whoa.
MATT: There is no spoken language.
LAURA: Should we tell her?
SAM: We don't know that this feathers are her
parents.
MATT: Looking through with your medicine check, it
looks like there's only three between the two of them.
LAURA: There's three bodies. Were they big bones
or little bones?
MATT: They look to be little.
MARISHA: Her sisters. Parents are alive.
LAURA: Then they're really sad, and they will be
happy that one of their children--
TRAVIS: What good will it do? I don't think that
we need to tell her.
LAURA: Yeah, no. We won't tell her that, I was
afraid that it was her parents. But if we can let
her parents know that she's okay, then at least--
SAM: You said that you could send a message?
LAURA: Yeah, well. The Traveler's been teaching me
some stuff and I was asking him the other night
about how I could thank my mama and stuff like
that. He taught me a little bit of how to send
messages across distances.
SAM: Wow. But don't you need to know who you're
telling it to or something?
LAURA: I don't know. I think if it's familiar
enough, then I can send it. Maybe if she describes
them, I could do it. I haven't ever tried it.
SAM: We should try it now.
LAURA: I needed to send it to-- Oh, I have to
prepare it.
SAM: Oh.
TALIESIN: Let's haul this all back onto the cart
and get on our way and see where we get.
ASHLEY: Her parents just left her, you know?
MARISHA: We shouldn't go fighting with her.
LAURA: There were three other kids, you know?
TALIESIN: What do you propose we do?
MARISHA: I don't know.
LAURA: Blood all over my hands.
MARISHA: We gave her a dagger. Point her in the
right direction that her parents are going.
SAM: We can't leave her, the swamp things will
kill it.
MARISHA: Well, if she comes with us, then we will
kill her.
ASHLEY: What's her size?
MATT: Standing at full height, maybe about three
and a half feet.
MARISHA: Unless we can drop her off on the nearest
town.
ASHLEY: Just going to kick her up out of the bog.
LIAM: Will she be welcomed in a town?
TALIESIN: Will she be welcomed anywhere?
MARISHA: Exactly.
LIAM: DM, you said three or four, five hours for
Jester to do all of that gator carving before?
MATT: To actually harvest the actual armored hide
will get you pretty close to dusk.
LIAM: And that's what you did?
LAURA: Sure.
LIAM: Than I use arcane recovery. That's all I
wanted to ask, if I had time.
MARISHA: I don't know, guys. We've seen how people
react to Nott around here. What if we drag her in
front of some crazy locals?
TALIESIN: All of this are great points, but I'm
waiting for another idea.
LIAM: Well, I think we should do what we have done
well so far, which is to improvise. It is better
to bring her with her and then leave her and then
if we find an advantageous place to leave her,
then we will. But for the time being she is a
sidekick.
MATT: (like Caleb) "Sidekick."
TRAVIS: Fair chance is better than none.
TALIESIN: It's also possibly someone to watch the
cart while we do our businesses.
LAURA: Plus, in the morning I can send a message
to your mom and dad.
MATT: (like Jester) "Mom and dad."
LAURA: Right. We can gift you a horse, and then
you can go find them.
MATT: (chirping)
TRAVIS: We should get back to the cart and at
least try to make our way into some drier--
TALIESIN: To see if we can find somewhere safe.
LAURA: I'll carry this leather to the cart.
MATT: (like Jester) "I'll carry this leather to
the cart." She helps you to start lifting the
carved stuff, but barely at all.
LAURA: Right. I love her, I love her.
SAM and LAURA: She's the best.
SAM: Welcome to The Mighty Nein!
LAURA: (cheers)
MATT: (chirping) Walks right up to you, like
face-- (chirping)
SAM: I just give her a kiss.
MATT: (startled chirping)
SAM: She's just so cute, you know?
LAURA: I know, she really is.
MATT: And goes back to helping Jester.
TRAVIS: All right, to the cart, then.
TALIESIN: Yeah.
LIAM: Do you know cats? Do you like cats? Do you
know cats?
MARISHA: Birds don't like cats.
LAURA: She's a baby bird.
SAM: Cats don't like birds.
MARISHA: Sorry, cats don't like birds.
LIAM: Do you like cats?
MATT: (chirping)
LIAM: Into her hands. Frumpkin starts to purr and
nuzzle.
MATT: She is spellbound by this moment of a cat
appearing in her hands.
LIAM: Yeah, I ask Frumpkin to do a blep.
LAURA: A blep.
LIAM: And to lick her face.
MATT: (chirping)
MATT: Throws the cat down, seemingly weirded out
by the moment, doesn't quite know how to react.
MARISHA: Frumpkin starts chittering.
LIAM: He's friendly. That is my cat. If you want
to spend some time with him, you can. He is very
soothing for me, anyway. Give it a shot.
MATT: Picks up Frumpkin, and runs towards the cart
as you guys get there and load it up. Kiri jumps
up into the cart and turns around to the rest of
you and goes, (like Nott) "Welcome to The Mighty
Nein!" And starts petting Frumpkin.
LAURA: I love her so much!
SAM and TRAVIS: She's the best of us.
TALIESIN: Well, this is never going to get
irritating. Let's get on our way.
ASHLEY: Can I insight check her?
MATT: Sure. Make an insight check.
ASHLEY: My insight is so bad.
TALIESIN: That's going to make it even better.
ASHLEY: 12.
MATT: It's a bird person. "I'm bird p--" Not that
kind of bird person, but--
ASHLEY: I don't trust her. It's weird.
LIAM: I just want to point out that, if we pick up
one more stray, there will actually be nine of us.
TALIESIN: That can't happen. We will not have
that.
ASHLEY: With Frumpkin--
MARISHA: Then we wouldn't be ironic anymore.
TALIESIN: Cling to our irony.
LIAM: That's true.
MARISHA: Are we cheeky or are we serious? That'll
totally change our entire disposition of the group.
LIAM: It can be both.
TALIESIN: Seriously cheeky? Cheekingly serious.
LAURA: Let's put a cloak over her, so she looks a
little less like a bird.
SAM: I've got some clothing that would fit her! My
clothing. I give you my cape and and stuff.
MATT: (chirping)
LAURA: But now you don't have a cloak on. I'll
take off my cloak and put it on Nott.
SAM: I can't move.
LAURA: But it's a short cloak, it's a little one,
don't worry.
SAM: Okay, thank you.
MATT: It's a nice flannel, I'm going to want it
back. Right now? Yeah.
MARISHA and LAURA: Yeah.
LAURA: Okay, now I'm cold, too.
LIAM: Caleb takes off his cloak and puts it on
Jester. I never wear a cloak when we're not in the city.
LAURA: No, that's okay. I'm actually really warm
right now, I don't need anything.
MARISHA: Yes, it's definitely like 85 degrees.
We're all sharing cloaks for no reason.
LAURA: It's not 85 degrees, it's still cold here.
MATT: It's pretty chilly. It's like mid-60s.
LAURA: I put it back on Caleb and tuck him into
it.
MARISHA: Sorry, it's a humid 60 degrees.
MATT: It feels warmer than it is because of the
moisture in the air, but it's not, like, warm.
LIAM: Look, you guys, we are trying to make it
work.
TALIESIN: Let's head out.
TRAVIS: Yeah, Molly and I take the lead on the horses.
LAURA: Kiri, where was the city you saw, the
village of people?
MATT: Points up in front of the road, in that
direction.
LAURA: We should go in that direction.
SAM: Wait, that's the way that we go to find
our--
LAURA: So we can locate Febron Keyes, yeah.
SAM: Okay, let's go.
MATT: Following the Bromkiln Byway, your vision
pierces the dense tangle of trees and vines to see
the distant glow of lanterns just as the sun sets
and the evening sky grows dark. Closer still, you
make out a strange mismatch of varying levels that
make up the village. Whole areas stand on stilts
and raised platforms connected by bridges, while
much of the city to the eastern side appears to be
partly submerged in bog water. The browns, greens,
and grays of the marsh itself is reflected in the
browns, greens, and grays of the people who now
wander the streets, going about their business.
Welcome to Berleben, a somewhat miserable-looking,
but functional village here in the Dwendalian
Empire. As you come off the road, the road gives
way into this central district, which looks to be
a smattering of stone slabs, cobblestone, and
whatever pieces of material were left over from
construction that helped fix and maintain a main
road here in the central opening before it
scatters into the rest of the city. What would you
like to do?
TALIESIN: Technically, did we get a short rest on
the way in? Or did that not happen?
LIAM: Jester took most of the day to harvest a
gator.
MATT: Yeah.
LAURA: We should probably look for an inn or
something, right?
MARISHA: We have to look for Febron who is
apparently in the Keystone Pub.
LAURA: We should look for the Keystone Pub!
LIAM: Febron Keyes in the Keystone Pub.
MARISHA: In the (mumbling) district. I ran out of
page--
LIAM: In the Puddles.
MARISHA: In the Puddles! It is in the Puddles. I
got Pudd.
LIAM: Puddin'.
MATT: In the Puddin'.
LAURA: Is there anybody outside right now?
MATT: There are people walking through the
streets. Some of them are carrying small sacks
over their shoulder from one place to another, or
in the process of wandering over to make about
their business for the city, and they notice you
approach, and they're slightly nosey, paying
attention to these strangers that came in off the
Byway.
SAM: I'm going to cast Disguise Self on myself.
MATT: Okay. To look like?
SAM: A little halfling girl.
MATT: All righty. (confused chirping)
SAM: It's still me. I can change my body into
other things, woo!
MATT: (chirping) She seems fascinated and
enthralled by this.
SAM: Oh, here! Take my mask. Oh, but you have a
beak.
MATT: (clicking) It's terrifying.
LIAM: Just pull that cloak way down.
MATT: There's still this long, dark beak poking
through, but you got what you got.
MARISHA: It's stylistic. That's fine.
LIAM: That's a Percy mask.
MATT: Yeah. Plague Doctor it up.
TRAVIS: Keystone Pub, right?
LAURA: Yeah. Excuse me?
MATT: There's one older woman going by, who's
hunched, has her own hood up, and a long gray
cloak. She's wearing a stained linen blouse and
says, "What do you want?"
LAURA: Lovely weather we're having, huh?
MATT: "Weather's shit."
LAURA: Okay! I was wondering if you could point us
towards an inn, or the Keystone Pub maybe?
MATT: "Keystone Pub's in the Puddles, that way."
LAURA: Thank you.
MATT: "Look for the crooked tower thing."
LAURA: Can you sleep there?
MATT: "I mean, you can. I wouldn't be caught dead
there."
LAURA: Oh.
MARISHA: Here. Here's some pocket bacon for your
trouble.
MATT: "What the fuck is pocket bacon?!"
MARISHA: You seem like you'd appreciate that more
than money, so I don't know.
MATT: "I'm very confused, but I'll take it." Puts
it in her pocket, keeps walking.
MARISHA: See?
SAM: How much of that do you have?
MARISHA: I swiped from a few places.
MATT: The whole campaign, she's been subtly,
stealthily stealing bacon.
MARISHA: I would do that. I have done that. I just
want to say, wrap it up in a paper towel, stick it
in your bag, fine.
TRAVIS: From what we can see in the streets, is
anyone carrying any weapons, or guards, or spears?
MATT: There are. You do actually see a handful of
crownsguard. They're present, it's still part of
the Empire, though they look to be somewhat
lackluster. At least, their armor isn't as shiny
and well-kept. It looks like one of them is like,
"Ah, fucking hell." They're stationed here, and
they're probably not very appreciative, and have
tried their best to adapt to the life here in the
Labenda Swamp, but they are visible throughout the
town, including The Puddles, which you begin to go
towards. Almost half of the city takes up The
Puddles. It looks like it was the oldest portion
of the town. The original Berleben was just this
district, called The Puddles. The entirety of it
is beneath between one to three inches of water, so as you
begin to descend from the central area of the
town, you begin to submerge your feet, and the
entire rest of the city has slowly been sinking
into the swamp. It's like slowly wading through a
tide at the beach. It's also very much the
impoverished side. If you could imagine an area of
the swamp more impoverished than what you've
already come across, this is it. You see a lot of
huts and hovels. All the buildings here, on top of
being older masonry and stone structures in
construct, the bases themselves are a deep algae
green from the floor to about halfway up, about
two or three feet, where moss and fungus and
various other plant matter have slowly grown as
the liquid that has been soaking into the vicinity
is slowly growing up the sides of these buildings.
There's a fountain that has completely folded in
now at this point. It has fallen into itself. Bits
of the water seem to have permeated through. It's
an older relic of the earlier construction
period.
LAURA: I cast Mending on the fountain.
MATT: It does nothing.
TALIESIN: I love this place. This is great.
MATT: Crownsguard keep an eye on you as you are
the newcomers that walk in. You do notice, as you
head down to the Puddles, that one of the guards
that watched you enter trails back about 30 or so
feet, slowly walking and keeping an eye.
MARISHA: I pace behind the group and start
catching up to him.
LAURA: Is the wagon doing okay in the--
MATT: Yeah, it's doing all right. It's only about
three inches of water averaged, so it's not a major
hindrance. You're also going at a relatively
comfortable pace now that you're in the city.
TRAVIS: Keep pushing in, looking for any signage
of the Keystone Pub.
LAURA: Yeah, looking for the big tower thing.
MATT: Perception check for both of you guys.
LIAM: Also, very important question, how is Kiri
doing with Frumpkin?
MATT: Kiri is now enthralled in the back of the
cart, hood up, Frumpkin curled up on her lap, and
is slowly petting him. She's slowly petting him.
MARISHA: I match pace with the crownsguard
eventually, the one that's following us.
MATT: You come up and--
MARISHA: I slow behind to match his pace, who's
following us.
MATT: You two--
TRAVIS: 15.
LAURA: 22.
MATT: You see it first, and as soon as you look in
that direction, you catch up with that, Fjord. You
spot a small crooked tower, maybe about 25 or so
feet high. It looks like there was originally a
building here that fell into itself and collapsed,
and they built a pub on top of it. Not very well,
so it's a haphazard construct that looks somewhat
unstable with bits of broken stone and-- The only
way you can get up into it are rope ladders
hanging down the front of it that lead into an
archway that's open on the top. There are two oil
lanterns hanging from the outside that give this
faint glow to the exterior. From the inside, it
looks warmly lit, though dark.
MARISHA: I would hang out here all the time.
MATT: It's about an eight-foot climb to get to the
threshold of the interior.
LIAM: The only way to get in is an eight-foot
climb on a rope?
MATT: That's what it looks like, yeah.
LIAM: Oh dear.
LAURA: Let's go up there!
MATT: You guys guide your way that way. You manage
to catch up with the crownsguard who is walking.
As soon as he sees you slowing behind, he lets you
catch up.
LAURA: Should somebody stay with the cart, maybe?
Because I feel like all of our awesome stuff that
we just got will be taken.
SAM: What stuff?
LAURA: This leather that we took--
SAM: Bloody crocodile skins?
TALIESIN: We have a beautiful piece of leather. We
also have some fine tapestries. We have a safe. We
have many things.
SAM: Well, Caleb can put his string around it.
LIAM: I start to pull the silver thread around the
edges of the cart.
SAM: (deep voice) Please step away from the
vehicle.
MATT: You just leave it on the base of the tower?
LIAM: All of us can get in, but anybody else will
set that off.
MATT: As you approach, the guard turns to you.
"Evening, miss."
MARISHA: Evening, sir.
MATT: "Out of towners?"
MARISHA: Passing through.
MATT: "All right, just don't make any trouble."
MARISHA: Feels like trouble would make your life a
little interesting, though, wouldn't it?
MATT: "Don't like interesting."
MARISHA: Oh, is that why you're stationed here? Is
this by choice, or who'd you piss off?
MATT: "No trouble, miss."
MARISHA: What's your name?
MATT: He's staring right through you.
MARISHA: No, nothing? Just a little conversation.
Just simple, you know, trying to be polite.
MATT: "Your name first."
MARISHA: Beau.
MATT: "Beau."
MARISHA: Yeah.
MATT: "Crownsguard Alexander."
MARISHA: Crownsguard Alexander. So formal.
MATT: "I don't like you."
MARISHA: I get that a lot.
MATT: "I can imagine."
MARISHA: Yeah.
MATT: "Don't start any trouble."
MARISHA: All right.
MATT: "Good. Get on your way."
MARISHA: I will wait because I don't like him
telling me what to do and then I will get on my way.
TRAVIS: When you're good and ready.
MATT: As you wait there, this awkward 30 second
stare, he goes, "I'll just--"
MARISHA: Yeah. No, I'm comfortable.
TRAVIS: Let him know.
MATT: "Be on your way." He turns around and walks
back to his post.
MARISHA: I wait, and then I give myself a this for
winning that game of chicken. Yeah! Then I climb
the rope.
LIAM: Man, what a great scene between husband and
wife.
TALIESIN: That was me at 16 with every cop ever;
that was great. This is the tiniest hill, and I
will die on it. Never ended that well.
MARISHA: This means nothing, and I want to win.
MATT: Are you guys keeping Kiri in the cart?
LIAM: No, she's coming with us.
MATT: Kiri climbs up with you. (chirping)
LAURA: Kiri, stay behind me a little bit, okay?
Don't make yourself obvious, all right?
MATT: (like Jester) "All right."
LAURA: We need to protect you.
MATT: (like Jester) "Protect."
SAM: We're bringing her into the bar?
LAURA: We can't leave her in the cart!
SAM: I guess not. Do you drink liquor, Kiri?
MATT: (confused chirp)
TALIESIN: No.
SAM: Booze?
LIAM, TALIESIN and LAURA: No!
LAURA: Just say no. No! Kiri, no!
SAM: Here, I'll give you--
LAURA: No! Don't!
LIAM: Do you know what booze is?
MATT: (chirp)
ASHLEY: She's going to try it sooner or later, you
know.
LAURA: Do not let this little bird girl have
booze.
LIAM: We'll get her a Tirley Shemple, it's fine.
MARISHA: You know, if you teach respect early on
towards alcohol, though.
SAM: That's true.
MATT: (like Nott) "That's true!"
ASHLEY: Because if she has it, she won't--
SAM: That's a bad idea. Let's go in.
MATT: She hands Frumpkin to you and climbs up the
rope with the rest of you. As you guys climb up the
eight-foot jaunt up to the side, you step up past
the threshold into the archway and are immediately
met with this tough-looking albino dwarf dude.
He's standing there with pale white skin, jet
white-gray hair, white eyebrows, big white beard,
with this black leather vest that's tucked into
billowing dark brown pants and boots. He's got all
these scars and tattoos across his forearms he's
folded and he goes, "Right." Steps back, lets you
in.
LAURA: Hi!
MATT: Gives a nod. He continues to glare as you
guys step inside. Within, it's a warmly lit, cozy
space that resembles being belowdeck on a ship at
sea. You're right at home here, Fjord. It's all
dark wood from all different angles, and it's
cramped, too, so it has that similar feel. All the
light in here are a handful of oil lanterns, so
it's pretty heavily shaded in certain areas, so
you're only catching rim lighting and soft light
on certain faces around here. There's maybe six
patrons in here total. To the right, this loud
banging sound as two individuals in the process of
building some sort of a stage in the corner
immediately to your right. It's small, maybe
five-foot by five-foot, but it's in the process of
being built. To your left, you see the bar. It's
an L-shaped bar, not terribly large. There behind
it there's three oil lamps set up, they light the
area. You can see some of the liquor bottles and
the ale kegs and everything set up towards the
back of the bar. In the front, with one patron
sitting on a stool, you see a rather
cheerful-looking, middle-aged male gnome as the
purveyor of this establishment. He's got puffy
black hair and heavy mutton chops on the sides of
his face, this bulbous rosy nose. He's in the
process of pouring and refilling this tankard for
the patron who's leaning against the bar in front
of him, this gruff-looking fisherman human dude.
He gives a glance over to you as you step in,
taking in the vicinity, and goes, "Hey! Welcome to
the Keystone Pub! Oldest pub in the Labenda! The
"oldest pub in the Labenda is beneath this one, but
we rebuilt it."
LAURA: It's really cool.
TALIESIN: Stunning.
MATT: "Thank you very much. Glad you could make
it. Where are you all from?"
LIAM: All over the place, really.
SAM: Alfield.
MATT: "Alfield, that's a bit of a journey, isn't
it? Well, glad you could make it. Not many folks
"come that far over here to visit the swamp."
MARISHA: What's your name, good sir?
MATT: "I am Dent Bonswallow."
LAURA: He's a little bit high right now.
LIAM: Bon or Barn, or--?
MATT: "Dent Bonswallow."
LAURA: Can I look around at the few patrons that
are in here and see if any of them fit the
description of Febron Keyes?
MATT: Perception check.
TRAVIS: Two teeth, busted eye.
MARISHA: Looks super cray.
LAURA: That was a shitty roll. Eight.
MATT: It's too dark in here, unfortunately.
There's only six other patrons, but they're too
dimly lit for you to make out any features.
LAURA: Can I get up close to them and one by one?
SAM: We can look in a few more minutes.
LIAM: Let your eyes adjust to the room.
MATT: As Jester begins walking off through the
chamber, he's like, "What can I get you guys? What
"you asking for? What you looking for?"
MARISHA: What's your strongest drink?
MATT: "That would be the Labenda Throat Grog."
MARISHA: What is-- what?
MATT: "Labenda Throat Grog."
MARISHA: Yeah. That.
MATT: "Burns you like a fucker."
MARISHA: Bender Throat Grog?
MATT: "Labenda. The swamp you're in. Same color as
the swamp. Burns your throat. Tastes like grog.
"That's where it got its name."
MARISHA: What do you mean, same color as the
swamp? Green and shitty?
MATT: "Yeah!"
TALIESIN: That sounds exciting. I think we need a
round.
MATT: "A round for everyone? You too?" Points to
the little hooded creature next to you.
SAM: No, she's on the wagon.
MATT: (as Kiri, like Nott) "On the wagon." (as
Dent) "Right. Weird."
(laughter)
TALIESIN: I didn't know I needed this.
MATT: "That's going to put you back about 25
copper pieces."
MARISHA: Oh. I'll take it. No, I've got it.
LIAM: I have it.
MARISHA: This one's on me.
LIAM: That's easy for me to do.
MARISHA: I need it for tax write-offs.
TRAVIS: Boulder-parchment-shears!
SAM: They always fight for the check.
MARISHA: Boulder-parchment-shears.
LIAM: Okay.
LIAM: Eins, zwei, drei. Snip.
MARISHA: All right, you get it.
MATT: As he's pouring the drinks one by one: "What
brings you to town? What brings you so far north
"from Alfield?"
LAURA: We heard amazing things about this area,
and we thought we would check it out, because
we're travelers.
MARISHA: Historical point of interest.
LAURA: Yes, and we like to see different sorts of
things, and this is really an interesting area.
You know, not many cities have a lot of water in
them like this.
MATT: "It's a shithole. But it's our shithole!"
LAURA: It's really cool-looking, though.
MATT: "Thank you, I appreciate that."
MARISHA: That's exactly the magnet that I bought
when I got in here.
MATT: "Oh, you got one of the shithole magnets,
too?"
MARISHA: I got a shithole magnet.
MATT: "If anyone else wants any, I got a whole
bucket of them."
TALIESIN: You are a shithole magnet, really, when
you think about it. That's fair.
MARISHA: It spoke to me.
SAM: You're building a stage for something? Is
there some sort of circus in town?
MATT: "No, I wanted some entertainment to liven
the place up a bit. I've been here for ten years,
"and it's been a bit dull."
TRAVIS: Did you own the previous bar that this
one's built on top of?
MATT: "I did. Inherited it from my father, before
it, you know."
LIAM: How old is Berleben in general?
MATT: "It's been here since the empire started.
Almost three centuries."
LIAM: Wow.
MATT: "Yeah."
TRAVIS: You know, we love traveling around. Is
there anything in Berleben that we just have to
see before we leave?
MATT: "I mean, you're there."
TRAVIS: Here?
MATT: "Yeah. It's the finest pub in town."
TRAVIS: Great.
MATT: "Hey, it's rough to start at the top, mate,
but you make your way down."
TRAVIS: Worse ways to go.
TALIESIN: Can we go shopping in town, maybe? We've
got some leather to trade, may have some armor.
MATT: "Maybe. Your best bet for trade wouldn't be
here in The Puddles. You'd be looking for the
"Midway Docks. That's where most of the business
gets done here. If you're looking for things for a
"fancier space, maybe you want to head to The
Stilts, but that's where the-- what's the word I'm
"looking for-- folks who run the place stay."
LIAM: There's a fancier part of this town?
MATT: "It's The Stilts. It's where it's all raised
up. That's where the Summit House is, where the
"Starosta stays. There's the Mossmire Temple, which
is where the druid that keeps the swamp fane
"stays. The Idolmaster."
TALIESIN: We're also going to be looking for a
place to sleep. I don't know if you'd recommend
anywhere that--
MATT: "You're already here."
TALIESIN: You have rooms?
MATT: "Yeah!" He points down.
TALIESIN: That's exciting!
LAURA: Downstairs?
MATT: "Yeah!"
LAURA: Whoa, that could be so much fun!
MARISHA: Is it haunted?
MATT: "Do you like things that are haunted?"
MARISHA and TALIESIN: Yes.
MATT: "It's haunted!"
MARISHA and TALIESIN: Yeah!
LAURA: Is it submerged in water?
MATT: "No, we cleared out underneath. Everything
that fell in, we cleared out, and we have
"subterranean rooms."
TALIESIN: I'm very excited by this.
ASHLEY: Do they have portholes to the water?
MATT: "That's not a bad idea." He makes a note on
a piece of paper. "There will be, in a few weeks."
ASHLEY: Okay.
LIAM: Are they below the water level here?
MATT: "Most of them, no. But there's a few if you
like it wee bit soggy."
TRAVIS: I walk away from the bar and stand near
the door entrance.
MARISHA: I cover for Fjord a little bit. Just
taking space.
MATT: Okay.
MARISHA: Just fill it out. This is my bubble now.
MATT: Nobody get close!
TALIESIN: How many rooms do you have?
MATT: "Four."
TALIESIN: How much are they apiece?
MATT: "Let's see, for the inn put it about a
silver piece per room."
TALIESIN: I figure we should stay in all four for a
couple of days.
MATT: "Per person."
TALIESIN: Per person?
MATT: "Yes."
LAURA: That's a lot more than you originally made
it sound like.
MATT: "I apologize for the miscommunication."
TALIESIN: I am perfectly okay with this.
TRAVIS: Yes.
LAURA: Yeah, sure, why not?
MARISHA: It is haunted.
MATT: "That is the case. You pay for them
spirits."
LAURA: Is there someone who can keep our cart? Do
you have a place we can keep our cart?
MATT: "You brought a cart?"
LAURA: Well, yeah.
MATT: "Then yeah. We can keep it. I can keep it."
LAURA: Keep it where? Where?
MATT: (defeated) "You can take it to the
stables."
LAURA: Okay.
MATT: "The Midway Docks. But I can do it for you!
For just a few copper. A delivery fee."
LAURA: No, I'll do it because I want to see the
town.
MATT: "Okay."
TALIESIN: Eight silver.
SAM: You said a silver per person?
MATT: "Aye."
TALIESIN: Let's put a couple-- yeah, eight, that's
fine, I've got that.
LAURA: Sure.
MATT: "Fair enough. Deed is done. Thank you! Did
you want me to be delivering your cart for you?"
LAURA: No, I can do it. Yeah.
SAM: We'll be fine.
MATT: "All right. If you ever get lazy-- "
LAURA: Where's the stable?
MATT: "The Midway. There's only really one stable.
It's a bit large, there. It's in the Midway Docks,
"so keep an eye out, ask around, you'll find it."
MARISHA: Bonswallow.
MATT: "Yeah?"
MARISHA: We heard about a kooky regular. We just
have to meet him. Febron?
MATT: "You looking for old Febron?"
MARISHA: Febron Keyes, yeah.
MATT: "I ain't going to ask. He's over there. Left
of the stage where it looks like he's passed out,
"probably in his own piss, most likely." He points
in the direction, you can see where they're
banging with hammers at the stage, there's one guy
who's like (snoring). Just completely out.
Probably drooling down the side of the face.
LAURA: Man! I was going to look at everyone in
here!
SAM: We found him! We won!
LAURA: He's right here!
SAM: We send the message back to The Gentleman,
and we'll collect our money.
TALIESIN: Were we given anything special to say to
him or should we go wake him up?
LAURA: No, we have to secure the safe house.
SAM: Oh, that's right, that's not-- okay, I'm
sorry, I was confused.
MATT: He's just the contact who knows.
LAURA: Let's go wake him up!
TALIESIN: Yeah, I'm going to walk over and sit
down at his table.
MATT: (snoring)
TALIESIN: Wave my drink underneath his nose. Hey
hey hey! I pop it off.
MATT: (snoring)
TALIESIN: I'll flick him in the forehead.
MATT: (groans) "What the fuck you do that for?"
SAM: Oh, boy.
TALIESIN: You seem like such a charming
gentleman.
MATT: You now have the full appearance here, and
it's pretty busted. The Gentleman was wrong. There
is one tooth, but it is black and angled.
LIAM: From the bottom?
MATT: Yeah, from the bottom out. The lips are
cracked. The left eye is angling off in an off
direction. He looks like he's probably been kicked
in the face a few times by probably a horse at
some point in his childhood. He's definitely had a
rough go at life, probably, but has seemed to have
carved a living. The very balding head on top,
jaundiced skin, looks like he's sweating from the
general humidity of the air in there, along with
probably who knows how much he's been drinking and
he's sweating the alcohol through his pores.
Doesn't take care of himself. He looks up. "So
"what you doing?"
TALIESIN: You just seem like such a charming
gentleman.
MATT: "Why the fuck did you flick me?"
TALIESIN: We were sent for.
MATT: "From-- ? Where's my fucking drink?"
TALIESIN: A certain gentleman.
MATT: Tension goes straight. This eye goes
(fwoop!). Joins the other.
TALIESIN: I hand him the drink one more time.
MATT: "You were sent by The Gentleman? Yeah?
What's he want?"
MARISHA: Don't drink from that again. Don't. Wash
that.
TALIESIN: It's sterile. By its very nature it's
sterile.
SAM: Can you use Mending on him?
LAURA: Just on his teeth.
TALIESIN: Don't fix him, he's perfect!
LIAM: That would be a 9th-level spell, that's
beyond--
MARISHA: That's a Wish! Yeah!
TALIESIN: We're here to help you with your
troubles.
MATT: (chuckles) "My troubles just started, mate!
Don't want anything with this. No. Fucking out.
"No. Want nothing to do with it!"
TALIESIN: We're here to deal with the safe house.
MATT: "Nope. Think I'm fucking doing it? It's not
my problem anymore! I don't want anything to do
"with him, or any of his business. He wants to send
more of his toadies out to a drowning death? Go
"for it! That's up to you. I want nothing to do
with it. You can do it without adding corpses by
"my tangle."
TALIESIN: Well, if you want another drink, then,
you're going to show us how to get there and how
to deal with it and what you know.
MATT: "How is that? It's a drink for it? Eh, fuck
you!"
TALIESIN: (laughs) I take my drink back.
LIAM: We could also drag you back to The Gentleman
if you'd prefer that, instead. Or you could point
us in the right direction and let us take care of
it.
TRAVIS: True. He did not have the kindest things
to say about you.
MATT: Make an intimidation check.
MARISHA: Beau gives a crack.
LAURA: You're so intimidating, Caleb. Really,
really--
LIAM: That is a 15.
MATT: A 15? The sweat begins to build a little
more on his brow. He's like, "Well, I was just--
"don't need to be taking me back to him. You know,
I don't want the work anymore."
LIAM: Well, you know: keep it simple, stupid.
MATT: (sighs) "Could I get another drink? Look
mate, it's some shit going on out there in the
"swamp. I bet he didn't tell you anything, did
he?"
LAURA: Was it gators?
MATT: "No, it wasn't gators!"
LAURA: Oh well, because we are really good at
killing those.
LIAM: We are very aware that he has sent us into
something more troublesome than he has described,
and we are willing to do that. We're told you are
the one who can get us in the right direction?
We'll be very disappointed otherwise.
MATT: "Look. It was easy work, mate. All right?
Meet his friends, lead them to the safe house in
"the swamp, lead them back. Good pay. Simple work.
And yeah, I'm going to miss it, huh? But I value
"my life more than that. Few weeks back I escorted
one of his smuggled troops to the safe house in
"the swamp. Right? The one you're asking about.
Left them there with instruction to return a few
"days later and escort them to the underground
river. Returned and I heard something cruel. Some
"low, echoing howl. (weak scream) It was much
scarier than that. Shaking, I got there, right?
"Fucking hell. Outside the house, all of them,
dead. Strung up in reeds and roots. Bloated and
"left as a warning, that's what I say. I hear the
howl again, and I just run."
SAM: I'm covering Kiri's ears.
MATT: "There be curses in this swamp. Have been
since before this loathsome struggle shithole's
"been here. (tearfully) Nightmares I been having,
yeah? Been having ever since. Whatever it is, it's
"gotten in me head! I ain't going. It ain't worth
it if I had the coin!"
LAURA: What if we paid you 100 coin?
MATT: "I'll come for that."
(laughter)
LAURA: All right. We could do that.
ASHLEY: You just said "coin," right?
LAURA: I just said "coin." I didn't make it clear
which kind of coin.
SAM: Copper? 100 copper?
LAURA: 100 copper? 100 silver, okay, 100 silver,
you got it.
MARISHA: Half and half. Little gold, little
silver. Silver and gold.
ASHLEY: Which make--?
MATT: Make it a hundred gold pieces and buy me a
drink.
SAM: Yeah, I'll pour you a drink. I'll refill his
cup. Does he have a cup?
MATT: He does. He had to pull it off the ground.
It's knocked over and spilled.
SAM: With my flask, I'll fill it up.
LAURA: That's one part of it taken care of!
MATT: "And the other?"
LAURA: All right.
SAM: Half now, half upon--
LAURA: Upon delivery to the place.
MATT: Make a persuasion check.
LIAM: That's a persuasive Jessie--
LAURA: No, it's not, it's really not.
LIAM: Damn it, Jessie!
LAURA: It's a nine!
MATT: "100 gold now, or you're pissing up the wind
to find this little place!"
LAURA: Don't be a dick to us. You already said you
were scared of us bringing you back to The
Gentleman. What are you going to do?
MATT: (Kiri, like Jester) "What are you going to
do?" Your bird friend says. He goes--
MARISHA: Yeah, what she said.
MATT: (as Febron) "Look. I'm going to be risking
my life, I'm going to do it for the right amount
"of coin, okay? It's a service I'm providing. You
can drag me back if you like. It's a pain in the ass!"
MARISHA: Look, you got to risk your life for the
coin, or we can drag you back, as you said,
without any coin.
MATT: "Then drag me back! Take me back to him!
Empty-handed in the deal you're looking for!"
SAM: 100 gold.
LAURA: And you sing us a song. On the stage.
MATT: "100 gold."
LAURA: And?
MATT: Make another persuasion check. With
disadvantage.
LIAM: Because Matt doesn't want to sing.
MATT: No, he doesn't want to sing!
LAURA: 12?
MATT: He goes, "Deal, but it's a short song!"
LAURA: Yeah! Does everyone want to chip in a
little bit of gold?
SAM: Sure.
TALIESIN: I want to point out, this is entirely
your doing.
LIAM: I'm going to give you all my gold. That is
one.
SAM: I'll take Caleb's share.
MARISHA: Man, you are so broke all the damn time!
LIAM: No, I have two silver and five copper!
MARISHA: You are so broke all the damn time!
LIAM: How. Broke. Am I?
LAURA: This is like sorting out a check at the end
of a meal.
TRAVIS: I'll give you 20.
TALIESIN: I'll give you 12.
MARISHA: I'll give you 20. I'll cover Caleb.
SAM: 12?
LAURA: 20 plus 20, 12, okay.
SAM: I'll take the rest.
MATT: Accounting in D&D!
LAURA: No, I'm going to do 20 from me, too, so
that's 72, and then one from Caleb, so 73, so--
SAM: 27 from me.
LAURA: All right.
ASHLEY: Wait, but I didn't put any. I'll put in
ten, and you put in--
SAM: 17.
LAURA: All right. Here's your gold. All of us
pulled together. Now go sing your song! Wait,
shake my hand because-- eww.
TALIESIN: You said it.
LAURA: It's really important to shake when you
make a deal. And look me in the eye.
MATT: His one eye wandering.
ASHLEY: Both of them.
LIAM: (whispers) Power ballad!
MARISHA: Make it a good one. One we all know the
words to. I want to sing along! I yell at him as
he walks away.
SAM: You're the worst.
MATT: He slinks over. The stage is only partially
up, and the two guys go-- "Just a moment." They're
like, "Fuck off!" "Just a fucking moment! Just
one!" They're like, "Fucking hell, Febron,
"seriously?" They step back, cross their arms and
he gets up on the stage.
LAURA: Margaritaville!
MATT: Looks at the pouch of coins.
MARISHA: Free Bird!
ASHLEY: Stairway to Heaven!
MATT: (singing off-key) "All the sailors say:
Brandy, you're a fine girl. What a good wife you
"could be."
TALIESIN: Oh, you know this one.
MATT and ASHLEY: "But my life, my lover, my lady
is the sea!"
(laughter and applause)
MATT: "I need a drink!" He goes back towards the
bar.
LAURA: Wait, are we leaving in the morning? When
are we doing this?
MATT: "When do you want to leave?"
SAM and LAURA: In the morning.
TALIESIN: We've got some shopping to do, we've got
to run around a bit.
SAM: 10:30.
ASHLEY: Wait a minute.
SAM: A soft 10:30.
ASHLEY: Did you already give him the gold?
TRAVIS: Yeah.
ASHLEY: Hang on.
TRAVIS: He ain't going to fucking be here in the
morning.
MATT: "You ain't taking it back!"
ASHLEY: Excuse me, how do we know you're going to
show up tomorrow? And not just run away with the gold?
LIAM: Well, he is staying with us this evening.
ASHLEY: Ah, that's right. You're staying with us.
MATT: "I'm staying with you?"
LAURA and ASHLEY: Yeah.
MATT: "Sure. Fine. Great."
ASHLEY: Take your pick.
LAURA: No!
ASHLEY: Choose wisely.
TALIESIN: I sleep naked. Thank you.
MATT: "Ready to snuggle, big lady?"
ASHLEY: Good choice.
MARISHA: Yes!
MATT: He goes and finishes his drink. You're shown
the sleeping quarters for the evening. There is a
hatch behind and to the back of the bar. It looks
like a dark corner, where there's almost no light.
The barkeep, Dent, comes over and brings one of
the lanterns off the wall and opens up a hatch,
and there is a ladder that leads down inside.
Literally, they've cleared out most of the ruin of
the old establishment below it, and there are four
separate rooms with a small hallway between, like
a cross-section hallway, that are built as a
subterranean sleeping quarters.
LAURA: This is so cool!
ASHLEY: Awesome.
MATT: There are no windows! It feels very much
like a prison cell with a bed, but it's functional.
LAURA: Are there two beds in the rooms, or is it
just one bed?
MATT: One bed per room.
SAM: Oh, boy.
MARISHA: Feels very trendy.
LAURA: Time to snuggle up, Beau!
MARISHA: Let's do it!
TRAVIS: Who's taking Kiri?
LAURA: Oh, Kiri's staying with us.
TRAVIS: Okay.
SAM: There's four rooms: one of them is Yasha and
the weirdo--
TRAVIS: Molly and Fjord.
TALIESIN: Mm-hmm.
LAURA: And you and Caleb.
SAM: Okay. As we go into our room, I say to Caleb:
It's not really haunted, is it?
LIAM: I highly doubt it. I mean, it's possible.
LAURA: Oh, shit. We need to take the cart to the
stables.
TALIESIN: We're putting our stuff down and we're
also-- How late is it at this point?
MATT: It's post-sundown. In the time of searching
the city, having the drink and conversation, it's
probably close to 9:30, 10:00, probably.
LAURA: Oh, shit. Maybe we should have the guy take
it. Or should we just leave it outside? I think
that's a bad idea.
TALIESIN: That's a terrible idea.
SAM: Have him take care of it. Well, we know
what's in it. There's inventory, so if anything's
missing, it's on him. It's on Dent.
LAURA: Okay, yes, we'll have Dent take it to the
stables.
MARISHA: Do you think he has insurance to cover
lost goods? Because I don't think he does.
LIAM: Insurance? No, we are in a podunk town,
there is no insurance here.
MATT: Taking all the horses and the cart to the
stables, Dent, looking it all over, charges you
two silver for the service.
LAURA: Can I insight check him and make sure he's
going to be honest?
MATT: Go for it.
LAURA: A natural one. He's the most trustworthy
guy I've ever met in my entire life.
MATT: Seems above board, yeah.
MARISHA: Someone should go with him and we get the
valuables off.
TALIESIN: Are you going to rethread the silver
that is--
LIAM: Well, we've been here an hour, there are
seven hours-ish left on the spell. That'll get us
through most of the night.
TALIESIN: That's fair.
LIAM: What all's in there? You have the--
MARISHA: Wait, does that go with the cart?
LIAM: Sure, I thread the cart, but you have the
thingy.
LAURA: Yeah.
LIAM: That's the most important thing.
SAM: The only thing on the cart is your thing that
you bought at the festival and some crocodile skins.
TALIESIN: Yep. Some leather, some armor. There's a
few things.
LIAM: I'm fine to send it.
MARISHA: It's fine, yeah.
LAURA: Okay, here's a couple silver for you. Thank
you.
MATT: "No worries, happy to help!" He goes and
carries it off and takes care of it for the evening.
LIAM: Also, Nott, I would not worry: the spookiest
thing in this place is us.
SAM: That is true.
MATT: You guys gather your things and bed down for
the evening, taking your respective chambers.
LIAM: (squeaking) Quick conversation?
MATT: Sure.
LIAM: Just, quick.
SAM: (squeaking)
(squeaking)
MATT: That was Kiri.
LIAM: As the hooligans are getting ready for bed,
I wanted to say to Nott: You know, I think, for
obvious reasons now, I have kept a lot of things
close to the vest, and those things are out. If
you ever want to talk about anything-- now or
later, after you think about it-- you are my
friend, and you can talk to me-- if you want.
SAM: Well, thank you. You know, I don't want to
burden you with my shit. You've got your own fish
to fry and your own battles to wage, and I don't
want you to have to worry about me or anything.
That means a lot to me, and-- oh, hello.
LIAM: I can't see you through your booze.
SAM: That's the point.
MARISHA: Was going to say, it's the full Wilson
effect.
SAM: I just want you to be okay. It sounds like
this person who corrupted you is out there still,
and we need to find him and you know, kill him or
whatever? If that's something that you want to do?
I'm fine focusing on that. I've got my own issues,
but I'm fine taking care of yours first. The thing
is, your story that you poured out to me and
Beau, the other day-- it was very sad, and I'm so
sorry that you had to go through it, but I have to
say, in a way, I'm a little bit jealous. Because
you've done this horrible thing-- not to make
light of it or anything, but it's bad-- and we can
all tell that you're wearing it in your dirty
clothes and your mussed hair--
LIAM: I'm clean right now.
SAM: Well, I know, but still-- You know when
you're dirty and it rains, and it streaks down and
dries? That's the sort of thing you've got going
on right now.
TALIESIN: Like you've just kissed Spider-Man.
LIAM: I mean, an hour in, yeah, but we were in the
rain for like, 48 hours.
SAM: But you've got a lot of dirt on you.
LIAM: Yeah, did Laura Bailey put you up to this?
SAM: No. All I'm saying is, I feel like you can
get revenge. You can maybe even get redemption for
what you've done, and you can become a better
person. You can do good to counteract the bad that
you've done in your past, and maybe someday there
will be an end to your suffering.
LIAM: You're getting ahead of yourself, okay? I am
a garbage person. Let's put that on the table. But
while I am a piece of shit, we can help each other
in the short term. This is going further than I
anticipated. I just meant that if-- These
people we are with are all interesting, and
great-- and untrustworthy, but great-- but I trust
you, which wasn't really true three weeks ago. I
just mean I wasn't-- I don't know, words don't do
it. Talk to me if you want.
SAM: All right. Thank you for the offer. Good
night, Caleb.
LIAM: Gute nacht.
MARISHA: Hey, Jester?
LAURA: Yeah?
MARISHA: What do you think Captain Max-dung,
whatever his name was--
LAURA: Maximilian.
MARISHA: Maximilian meant by (exaggeratedly sexy)
"I'll see you again."
LAURA: I think he was saying something that cute
guys sometimes say, those kind of things.
MARISHA: Yeah, like, "Ooh, I hope our paths cross
again someday, ooh."
LAURA: Then later on in the book, you run into him
again, and he remembers you.
MARISHA: And you're like, "Ooh, that's Captain
Max."
LAURA: Then he takes off his helmet this time, and
you see that he's got the most fabulous hair that
blows in the wind.
MARISHA: Oh, man, you're like, "I never knew he
had such luscious locks, mmm."
LAURA: Captain Maximilian is probably like that.
MARISHA: I think so, too. Do you think he had the
hots for any one of us? Do you think that's why he
said this like, "I want to see you again."
LAURA: He probably had the hots for you, Beau.
MARISHA: I think he had the hots for you.
LAURA: Well, no, probably not!
MARISHA: I mean.
LAURA: Maybe it was Yasha!
MARISHA: (whispering) Maybe it was Yasha. Maybe it
was like, "Ooh, I'm a captain."
MATT: (like Beau) "Ooh, I'm a captain."
LAURA: Yeah! Have you ever read Tusk Love, Kiri?
MATT: (curious chirping)
LAURA: You know what, maybe Kiri shouldn't read
Tusk Love just yet.
MATT: (scoots chair closer)
LAURA: Kiri, how old are your parents?
MATT: (confused chirping)
LAURA: You don't know how old they are?
LAURA: How old are you compared to most people
that are like you?
MATT: (confused chirping)
LAURA: I think that means she's pretty young.
MARISHA: Yeah. Kiri, where do babies come from?
She doesn't know what the hell we're talking about.
LAURA: Yes, she does.
MATT: (like Beau) "Where do babies come from?"
LAURA: Your voice is very low, Beau!
MARISHA: Is that how I sound?
LAURA: You kind of do sound like that.
MARISHA: Wow, I have a lot to re-evaluate.
TRAVIS: Got some nuts on you there.
MARISHA: I have to think about some things. We
should go to sleep.
LIAM: Hanging brain.
LAURA: Okay, I'm going to spend the evening
telling Kiri basically the story of Tusk Love--
SAM: Oh god.
LAURA: But she doesn't have to read it, I can
leave out the really dirty bits.
MARISHA: I fall asleep 20 minutes in, drooling a
little.
LAURA: I tell her all about Oskar.
MATT: Kiri is just enthralled.
LAURA: It's the most beautiful love story you've ever
heard in your entire life, basically.
MATT: (trilling)
LAURA: I draw pictures of it to illustrate what
I'm talking about.
MATT: If you could see a blackbird blush. Molly
and Fjord?
TALIESIN: It's not that I don't trust this place
or like it, but I'm thinking about locking the
door a little more heavily than normal. I'm going
to wedge my sword underneath the door to make sure
that it can't open without moving the sword. It's
a lot of new people today.
TRAVIS: Smart.
TALIESIN: I don't like new people.
TRAVIS: Is there any moisture in the corners of
the room?
MATT: Yeah, and you guys notice, two of the rooms
are dry, two of the rooms have about half an inch
of water on the floor.
TRAVIS: Which one is ours?
MATT: Half an inch of water on the floor.
TRAVIS: I really don't mind, This is actually
pretty familiar.
TALIESIN: I'm all right with this as well. This is
fine. I'll take the bed, though, if you're
offering!
TRAVIS: Not a problem.
MATT: All right. The door closes in the chamber.
(gulps drink) "Hello."
SAM: (electric guitar riff)
ASHLEY: I start pushing the bed up against the
door.
MATT: "Interesting. Right, okay." He starts taking
his linen shirt off: it's stained and--
ASHLEY: Now, you can sleep with your clothes on.
MATT: "I can, but it's not as comfortable."
ASHLEY: I throw him a pillow.
MATT: "All right. You first."
ASHLEY: I'm sleeping in the bed.
MATT: "Yeah, me too."
ASHLEY: No, you didn't pay for this room.
MATT: "May I sleep in the bed?'"
ASHLEY: (gum popping) No. You won't fit in the bed
with me. I am very big.
MATT: "Let's try."
ASHLEY: Let's not.
MATT: "Very well." He lays down on the somewhat
slightly waterlogged floor, takes the pillow and
bundles it up in the corner of the room and lays
down next to it. You have a little oil lamp that
you can put out.
ASHLEY: I'm going to leave it on.
LAURA: Leave that shit on.
ASHLEY: I sit up against the bed.
MATT: All right. You guys all eventually get to
sleep. You get an evening's rest, managing to
adjust to the unpleasant smell of somewhat swamp
bog water-soaked subterranean inn room, but the
night comes and passes. We'll pick up next week as
the morning comes to.
LIAM: Febron is totally telling his friends that
he nailed a barbarian.
ASHLEY: We'll see what happens!
TALIESIN: It's going to become that story that
everyone hates.
LIAM: (as Febron) So I had her alone, right?
MATT: He's a creepy little fuck.
LAURA: Ew.
ASHLEY: You never know! He could get lucky!
LIAM: (as Febron) It's me pheromones!
MATT: "Gets them everytime, eh?" Thank you, guys!
That was fun. Moving right along.
LAURA: I like this place.
MARISHA: I need a new notebook after this
session.
SAM: You filled that whole thing?!
TRAVIS: She writes at like font 55.
MARISHA: I do.
LIAM: Each page is a centimeter thick, though, on
this book.
TRAVIS: Yeah, and each page has like 15 words in
it.
LIAM: But there's illustrations, maps, curse
words, colors--
MATT: Learn from our monk!
LIAM: Punisher skulls.
MARISHA: Skulls are bad guys.
MATT: Yeah, it's good annotation.
LAURA: Smart!
LIAM: Mountain range.
MARISHA: Oh, you recognized it as a mountain
range! That's great!
TALIESIN: Who wants the coin in the morning, by
the way?
LAURA: Oh yeah.
TALIESIN: I think this is a clever system.
SAM: We haven't used it, yet.
TALIESIN: Yeah, but in the morning, somebody gets
it.
SAM: I'll take it.
MATT: Nott'll take the Fragment of Probability in
the morning. We'll pick this up next Thursday!
Also, we're going to have a guest next week.
LAURA: We are?!
MATT: I've told you this a number of times.
LIAM: I remembered, Matthew.
MATT: Thank you.
SAM: Playing the kenku?
MATT: No. We have a guest: my brother from another
motherland for the past decade in the world of
D&D. Some of you may know him from his online D&D
stream, High Rollers: Mark Hulmes will be in town
and joining us as a guest next week.
LIAM: No Englishmen.
MATT: Too bad, he's coming.
MARISHA: We already had Kit. We already had an
Englishwoman.
LIAM: She was the last one.
SAM: (exaggerated American accent) But only if he
does an American accent.
MARISHA: I want full Benedict Cumberbatch.
SAM: (exaggerated American accent) I'm from
California.
MATT: If we could get it out of him at some point,
that'd be great.
TALIESIN: I love a fake American accent.
MATT: Mark's a long-time friend. He came and
watched the show live when we first started
streaming long ago. Happy to have him come in and
join us next week. Excited for that, Mark. We'll
see you then. The rest of you, rest well, have a
wonderful weekend. You as well. We love you, and
is it Thursday yet? Good night!
[music]